[{"id": "fEV6rt330k", "rating": 3, "content": {"summary": "The paper presents SPOT (Scalable Pre-training via Occupancy Prediction), aimed at learning transferable 3D representations from LiDAR point clouds for autonomous driving tasks. SPOT leverages occupancy prediction as a pre-training task to learn general representations, employs beam re-sampling for point cloud augmentation, and class-balancing strategies to bridge domain gaps caused by varying LiDAR sensors and annotation strategies across different datasets. The authors extensively test SPOT across multiple datasets and 3D perception tasks, demonstrating its scalability and effectiveness.", "soundness": "2 fair", "presentation": "3 good", "contribution": "2 fair", "strengths": "1. Leveraging occupancy perception as a pretraining task is interesting.\n2. The tricks of beam re-sampling augmentation and class-balancing strategies are useful.\n3. The authors did large-scale experiments on five datasets.", "weaknesses": "My major concern is that this pretraining is not self-supervised representation learning. Although the authors tout SPOT as a label-efficient solution, the labor-intensive nature of building a large-scale semantic occupancy dataset seems to contradict this claim. Furthermore, the improvements and results showcased appear anticipated, especially given the employment of the extensively annotated large-scale Waymo open dataset.", "questions": "What will the results look like if only using binary occupancy labels without any human labeling? How can the pretraining be made fully self-supervised? Meanwhile, what will the results look like if pretraining on a different dataset (not Waymo)?", "flag_for_ethics_review": ["No ethics review needed."], "rating": "3: reject, not good enough", "confidence": "4: You are confident in your assessment, but not absolutely certain. It is unlikely, but not impossible, that you did not understand some parts of the submission or that you are unfamiliar with some pieces of related work.", "code_of_conduct": "Yes", "weakness": "My major concern is that this pretraining is not self-supervised representation learning. Although the authors tout SPOT as a label-efficient solution, the labor-intensive nature of building a large-scale semantic occupancy dataset seems to contradict this claim. Furthermore, the improvements and results showcased appear anticipated, especially given the employment of the extensively annotated large-scale Waymo open dataset. The experiments with binary occupancy labels show a performance decrease, suggesting that the semantic information is crucial for the pre-training task. This dependence on detailed semantic labels significantly limits the practical applicability of the method, as obtaining such labels is costly and time-consuming. The method's reliance on high-quality semantic occupancy labels for pre-training undermines its claim of being a label-efficient solution.", "suggestions": "The core issue with the proposed method is its reliance on large-scale, high-quality semantic occupancy labels for pre-training. While the authors demonstrate the effectiveness of their approach, the practical value is limited by the cost associated with acquiring such labels. To address this, future work should explore methods to reduce the dependence on fully annotated data. One potential direction is to investigate semi-supervised learning techniques that can leverage unlabeled or weakly labeled data in conjunction with a small amount of labeled data. This could involve using techniques like pseudo-labeling or consistency regularization to propagate labels from a small set of annotated examples to a larger set of unlabeled data. Another approach could be to explore self-supervised learning methods that do not require any labels at all, such as contrastive learning or masked autoencoding, adapted for the specific task of 3D occupancy prediction. These methods could potentially learn useful representations from unlabeled point cloud data, which could then be fine-tuned for downstream tasks with a small amount of labeled data.\n\nAnother area for improvement is to explore the use of synthetic data for pre-training. While the authors use real-world datasets, the cost of acquiring and annotating such data is high. Synthetic data, on the other hand, can be generated at a much lower cost and can be used to augment the real-world data. However, it is important to ensure that the synthetic data is realistic and representative of the real-world data. This could involve using techniques like domain adaptation or domain randomization to bridge the gap between the synthetic and real-world data. Furthermore, the authors should consider exploring different pre-training tasks that could be more label-efficient. While occupancy prediction is a useful task, it may not be the most efficient way to learn general representations. Other tasks, such as point cloud completion or denoising, could potentially be more effective and require fewer labels.\n\nFinally, the authors should consider a more thorough evaluation of their method on a wider range of datasets and tasks. While the authors evaluate their method on multiple datasets, it would be beneficial to evaluate it on more challenging datasets and tasks. This could involve evaluating the method on datasets with different sensor configurations, different environmental conditions, and different object categories. Furthermore, the authors should consider evaluating the method on tasks that are more challenging than object detection and semantic segmentation, such as motion prediction or scene understanding. This would provide a more comprehensive evaluation of the method's capabilities and limitations. A more rigorous analysis of the impact of different pre-training parameters, such as the size of the pre-training dataset and the number of pre-training epochs, would also be beneficial."}}, {"id": "DUprGvFIpR", "rating": 5, "content": {"summary": "This paper proposes a scalable pre-training method called SPOT for learning transferable representations for 3D perception tasks. SPOT pre-trains a model on the task of occupancy prediction, which is a general task that can be used to learn useful representations for various 3D perception tasks. To mitigate the gaps between pre-training and fine-tuning datasets, SPOT uses beam resampling augmentation and class-balancing strategies. The authors evaluate SPOT on various 3D perception tasks and datasets. SPOT outperforms training from scratch by a significant margin on all tasks.", "soundness": "2 fair", "presentation": "3 good", "contribution": "2 fair", "strengths": "This paper is well-written and presents extensive studies on pre-training occupancy prediction on the Waymo Open Dataset and fine-tuning on Nuscenes, KITTI, ONCE, and SemanticKitti. The authors make the interesting observation that occupancy prediction outperforms detection pre-training, even on downstream detection tasks. This highlights the ability of occupancy prediction to mitigate the domain gap between pre-training and fine-tuning datasets.", "weaknesses": "1. Unfair comparisons in Table 1 and 2: SPOT is compared against BEV-MAE and AD-PT, which are self-supervised and semi-supervised pre-training methods, respectively. This is an unfair comparison, as SPOT is a supervised pre-training method that benefits from human-labeled data. A more fair comparison would be to compare SPOT against other supervised pre-training methods.\n\n2. Supervised occupancy prediction is not new, and It is hard to argue scalability when pre-training is based on a labeled dataset.  On the other hand, self-supervised occupancy pretrainig was demonstrated in previous works, e.g. [1], which had shown unlabeled occupancy pretraining via MAE work. \n\n3. Another critical limitation on scalability is that the pre-training dataset must have a more expensive lidar setup (64-beam with high density) compared to the fine-tuning dataset. \n\n3. Low train from scratch baseline performance: As shown in Fig 7, with 100% nuScenes, training from scratch leads to mAP ~ 50, which is far from SOTA (>70) [2]. \n\n4.  Given the low train from scratch performance, could the baseline model be undertrained or that it is using a weaker data augmentation? \n\nPre-training 30 epochs on WOD requires a lot more computation resources compared to fine-tuning 30 epochs on NuScenes. \n\nIf you use the same computation resources ( as pre-training + fine-tuning) to train a model on NuScenes from scratch with a stronger data augmentation, I guess the performance gap between pre-training and training from scratch will be much smaller. \n\nAlso, previous studies have shown that with strong data augmentation during fine-tuning, the benefit from pretrianing diminishes [3]. \n\n[1] Min, Chen, et al. \"Occupancy-MAE: Self-Supervised Pre-Training Large-Scale LiDAR Point Clouds With Masked Occupancy Autoencoders.\" IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Vehicles (2023).\n\n[2] https://paperswithcode.com/sota/3d-object-detection-on-nuscenes\n\n[3] Zoph, Barret, et al. \"Rethinking pre-training and self-training.\" Advances in neural information processing systems 33 (2020): 3833-3845.", "questions": "Please see weaknesses.\n\n\n\n-------------------------------------\nThank you for running the additional experiments. I increased my score. \n\nHowever, I cannot recommend acceptance \n1.  the improvement is marginal (only + 0.25 NDS) for a stronger baseline (VoxelNext), Table 17.\n2.  As reviewer y7L9 suggested, `the improvements and results showcased appear anticipated`.", "flag_for_ethics_review": ["No ethics review needed."], "rating": "5: marginally below the acceptance threshold", "confidence": "4: You are confident in your assessment, but not absolutely certain. It is unlikely, but not impossible, that you did not understand some parts of the submission or that you are unfamiliar with some pieces of related work.", "code_of_conduct": "Yes", "weakness": "1. Unfair comparisons in Table 1 and 2: SPOT is compared against BEV-MAE and AD-PT, which are self-supervised and semi-supervised pre-training methods, respectively. This is an unfair comparison, as SPOT is a supervised pre-training method that benefits from human-labeled data. A more fair comparison would be to compare SPOT against other supervised pre-training methods.\n\n2. Supervised occupancy prediction is not new, and It is hard to argue scalability when pre-training is based on a labeled dataset.  On the other hand, self-supervised occupancy pretrainig was demonstrated in previous works, e.g. [1], which had shown unlabeled occupancy pretraining via MAE work. \n\n3. Another critical limitation on scalability is that the pre-training dataset must have a more expensive lidar setup (64-beam with high density) compared to the fine-tuning dataset. \n\n3. Low train from scratch baseline performance: As shown in Fig 7, with 100% nuScenes, training from scratch leads to mAP ~ 50, which is far from SOTA (>70) [2]. \n\n4.  Given the low train from scratch performance, could the baseline model be undertrained or that it is using a weaker data augmentation? \n\nPre-training 30 epochs on WOD requires a lot more computation resources compared to fine-tuning 30 epochs on NuScenes. \n\nIf you use the same computation resources ( as pre-training + fine-tuning) to train a model on NuScenes from scratch with a stronger data augmentation, I guess the performance gap between pre-training and training from scratch will be much smaller. \n\nAlso, previous studies have shown that with strong data augmentation during fine-tuning, the benefit from pretrianing diminishes [3].", "suggestions": "The paper's primary weakness lies in the unfair comparison of SPOT, a supervised pre-training method, against self-supervised and semi-supervised baselines like BEV-MAE and AD-PT. This comparison is misleading because SPOT leverages human-annotated data during pre-training, giving it an inherent advantage. To address this, the authors should compare SPOT against other supervised pre-training methods that utilize similar levels of annotation. Furthermore, the paper should clarify the novelty of using supervised occupancy prediction for pre-training, given that this concept has been explored in prior works. The authors need to clearly articulate what makes their approach unique and how it advances the field beyond existing methods. The current presentation leaves the reader questioning the true contribution of the proposed method.\n\nAnother significant concern is the scalability of the approach, particularly the reliance on a high-density 64-beam lidar setup for pre-training, while many downstream datasets utilize less expensive 16 or 32-beam lidar systems. This discrepancy raises questions about the practical applicability of the method in real-world scenarios where high-density lidar data may not be readily available. The authors should investigate the performance of SPOT when pre-trained on data from lower-density lidar setups to demonstrate its robustness and generalizability. Additionally, the low performance of the 'train from scratch' baseline on nuScenes raises concerns about the training protocol and data augmentation strategies used. The authors should provide more details on the training procedure and data augmentation techniques to ensure a fair comparison. It is crucial to verify that the baseline model is not undertrained or using weaker data augmentation compared to the pre-trained model. This is especially important given the computational cost of pre-training on the Waymo Open Dataset compared to fine-tuning on datasets like nuScenes. \n\nFinally, the paper should address the potential for diminishing returns from pre-training when strong data augmentation is used during fine-tuning. The authors should explore the impact of various data augmentation techniques on the fine-tuning performance of both the pre-trained and 'train from scratch' models. This analysis would help to determine the true benefit of pre-training, especially when compared to a well-tuned baseline model with strong data augmentation. The authors should also consider the computational cost of pre-training and compare it to the cost of training a model from scratch with strong data augmentation. This would provide a more complete picture of the trade-offs between pre-training and training from scratch. The authors should also consider using a more recent baseline such as VoxelNeXt [2] to demonstrate the effectiveness of their method."}}, {"id": "9q3zp7yCkD", "rating": 5, "content": {"summary": "The paper introduces SPOT (Scalable Pretraining via Occupancy prediction for learning Transferable 3D representations), a method for easing the annotation of 3D LiDAR point clouds, which is typically resource-intensive. The central idea is to leverage large-scale pre-training and then refine these models for different downstream tasks and datasets. Main contributions can be summarised as follows:\n\n- Occupancy Prediction: The paper underscores the potential of occupancy prediction as a means to learn general representations. The efficacy of this approach is validated through comprehensive experiments on numerous datasets and tasks.\n- Techniques for Point Cloud Augmentation: SPOT employs a beam re-sampling method to augment point clouds. It also implements class-balancing strategies to counteract the disparities arising from diverse LiDAR sensors and annotation methodologies across datasets.\n- Scalability of Pre-training: An interesting observation made is that as the amount of pre-training data increases, the performance on downstream tasks improves consistently.", "soundness": "3 good", "presentation": "4 excellent", "contribution": "3 good", "strengths": "- The paper addresses a significant challenge in 3D LiDAR point cloud research, specifically the task of annotating 3D LiDAR point clouds for perception. The approach of performing large-scale pre-training and then fine-tuning the pre-trained backbone on various downstream datasets is novel.\n\n- Comprehensive experiments on multiple pre-training and downstream datasets (WOD, KITTI, SemanticKITTI, NuScenes, ONCE) are presented, along with thorough ablation studies.\n\n- The structure and writing of the manuscript are clear, making it easy to follow.\n\n- The figures, visualizations and illustrations are exemplary, with a particular appreciation for Fig. 1.", "weaknesses": "- Some of the contributions highlighted by the authors appear to be not novel enough, e.g., the class-balancing strategies. Existing studies [1, 2], have showcased similar strategies. It would be good to acknowledge, cite, and compare their work with these prior studies.\n\n- In Sec. 4.1, the authors claim that \"our experiments are under label-efficiency setting.\" However, contemporary dataset subsampling techniques seem to encompass more than just the \"randomly selected\" method utilised in this paper. In fact, drawing from semi-supervised methodologies, the \"uniform sampling\" technique appears to be more prevalent. Moreover, Li et al. introduced the ST-RFD method, which aims to extract a more diverse subset of training data frame samples. I believe it would be beneficial for the authors to explore different sampling techniques and consider integrating the ST-RFD method to potentially achieve better downstream subset(s).\n\n- While the authors introduce a two-stage approach of first pre-training followed by fine-tuning, I'm still uncertain about the main advantages of that idea. For instance, current research employing semi-supervised or active learning techniques for point cloud semantic segmentation [3, 4] seems to achieve superior results  on 10% of the SemanticKITTI dataset (mIoU: 62.2 [3], mIoU: 60.0 [4]). Furthermore, Unal et al. [2] obtain a 61.3 mIoU on ScribbleKITTI (weakly annotated with 8% of the SemanticKITTI points). These methods also seem to efficiently utilise labels and alleviate the burden of extensive labelling.\n\n- Lack of related work, e.g., [1-4].\n\n[1] Zou, Y., Yu, Z., Kumar, B. V. K., & Wang, J. (2018). Unsupervised domain adaptation for semantic segmentation via class-balanced self-training. In Proceedings of the European conference on computer vision (ECCV) (pp. 289-305).\n\n[2] Unal, O., Dai, D., & Van Gool, L. (2022). Scribble-supervised lidar semantic segmentation. In *Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition* (pp. 2697-2707).\n\n[3] Li, L., Shum, H. P., & Breckon, T. P. (2023). Less is more: Reducing task and model complexity for 3d point cloud semantic segmentation. In *Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition* (pp. 9361-9371).\n\n[4] Kong, L., Ren, J., Pan, L., & Liu, Z. (2023). Lasermix for semi-supervised lidar semantic segmentation. In *Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition* (pp. 21705-21715).", "questions": "Refer to Weaknesses", "flag_for_ethics_review": ["No ethics review needed."], "rating": "5: marginally below the acceptance threshold", "confidence": "4: You are confident in your assessment, but not absolutely certain. It is unlikely, but not impossible, that you did not understand some parts of the submission or that you are unfamiliar with some pieces of related work.", "code_of_conduct": "Yes", "weakness": " - Some of the contributions highlighted by the authors appear to be not novel enough, e.g., the class-balancing strategies. Existing studies [1, 2], have showcased similar strategies. It would be good to acknowledge, cite, and compare their work with these prior studies.\n\n- In Sec. 4.1, the authors claim that \"our experiments are under label-efficiency setting.\" However, contemporary dataset subsampling techniques seem to encompass more than just the \"randomly selected\" method utilised in this paper. In fact, drawing from semi-supervised methodologies, the \"uniform sampling\" technique appears to be more prevalent. Moreover, Li et al. introduced the ST-RFD method, which aims to extract a more diverse subset of training data frame samples. I believe it would be beneficial for the authors to explore different sampling techniques and consider integrating the ST-RFD method to potentially achieve better downstream subset(s).\n\n- While the authors introduce a two-stage approach of first pre-training followed by fine-tuning, I'm still uncertain about the main advantages of that idea. For instance, current research employing semi-supervised or active learning techniques for point cloud semantic segmentation [3, 4] seems to achieve superior results  on 10% of the SemanticKITTI dataset (mIoU: 62.2 [3], mIoU: 60.0 [4]). Furthermore, Unal et al. [2] obtain a 61.3 mIoU on ScribbleKITTI (weakly annotated with 8% of the SemanticKITTI points). These methods also seem to efficiently utilise labels and alleviate the burden of extensive labelling.\n\n- Lack of related work, e.g., [1-4].", "suggestions": "The paper would benefit from a more thorough discussion of the novelty of its class-balancing strategy. While the authors implement a re-balancing approach for foreground categories, the core idea of addressing class imbalance in pre-training is not entirely new. Specifically, the paper should clearly articulate how its method differs from existing techniques like class-balanced self-training [1] and class-range-balanced self-training [2], which also aim to mitigate the impact of imbalanced datasets. A more detailed comparison, including a discussion of the specific mechanisms and potential advantages of each approach, would strengthen the paper's contribution. Furthermore, it would be valuable to analyze the impact of the proposed class-balancing strategy on different downstream tasks and datasets, providing a more comprehensive understanding of its effectiveness and limitations. This would involve not only reporting quantitative results but also providing qualitative insights into how the re-balancing affects the learned representations.\n\nRegarding the label-efficiency setting, the authors should explore a wider range of subsampling techniques beyond random selection. As noted, uniform sampling is a common approach in semi-supervised learning, and methods like ST-RFD, which focus on selecting more diverse subsets of training data, could potentially lead to better downstream performance. The paper should include a comparative analysis of different sampling strategies, demonstrating the impact of each on the final results. This would not only validate the authors' choice of random sampling but also provide a more comprehensive understanding of the label-efficiency setting. Furthermore, it would be beneficial to investigate the effect of different sampling strategies on the pre-training process itself, as this could reveal potential benefits of using more sophisticated methods for selecting pre-training data.\n\nFinally, the paper needs to better justify the two-stage pre-training and fine-tuning approach in light of recent advances in semi-supervised and weakly supervised learning. While the authors aim for a general pre-training approach, the current results on downstream tasks, particularly semantic segmentation, are not competitive with state-of-the-art methods that directly leverage unlabeled data or weak annotations [2, 3, 4]. The paper should include a more detailed discussion of the trade-offs between the proposed pre-training approach and task-specific semi-supervised or active learning techniques. This should include a comparison of the computational costs, data requirements, and performance characteristics of each approach. Furthermore, the authors should consider exploring the potential of combining their pre-training method with semi-supervised or weakly supervised fine-tuning techniques to further improve downstream performance."}}]