[{"id": "rtKP9H1Cw5", "rating": 6, "content": {"summary": "This paper presents an autoregressive model, LayerDAG, for generating directed acyclic graphs (DAGs). A key contribution of the paper is framing the problem as a layered graph, leveraging the fact that a topological ordering of a DAG naturally induces a layered structure, where each pair of consecutive layers forms a directed bipartite graph. Building on this layered representation, LayerDAG employs autoregressive generation to model directional dependencies between layers, while diffusion models capture logical dependencies within each bipartite graph. Experimental results demonstrate that LayerDAG outperforms several existing graph generative models.", "soundness": 3, "presentation": 3, "contribution": 2, "strengths": "1.\tGenerating DAGs is more challenging than generating general graphs due to their inherent dependencies and constraints. The layered structure simplifies the generation process by breaking down the DAG into a sequence of directed bipartite graphs, making dependencies easier to handle.\n2.\tLayerDAG's combination of autoregressive and diffusion models makes it a more robust approach to handling these complexities.\n3.\tLayerDAG offers a scalable solution for generating large, structured DAGs.\n4.\tThe paper demonstrates the improved performance of LayerDAG over other methods through experiments with various synthetic DAGs.", "weaknesses": "1.\tThe authors state that \"LayerDAG is based on a novel perspective of DAGs: as illustrated in Fig. 1(b), the partial order of nodes dictated by the DAG structure can be decoupled as a sequence of tokens, each corresponding to a bipartite graph.\" However, this approach has been widely known for decades. For example, Tarjan’s topological ordering algorithm for a DAG uses a Depth-First Search (DFS) traversal to produce a linear ordering of vertices, ensuring that for every edge, the source vertex appears before the target vertex in the ordering. Surprisingly, the paper does not reference Tarjan’s method or other relevant work in this area.\nCitation: Tarjan, R. E. (1972). Depth-first search and linear graph algorithms. SIAM Journal on Computing, 1(2), 146–160. doi:10.1137/0201010\n2.\tThe directional and ordered dependencies within a DAG structure are essential, meaning that order should be preserved. Thus, the motivation for seeking permutation invariance in this context is unclear. Furthermore, Proposition 3.1 lacks clarity, and a formal proof would help understand the proposition.\n3.\tIn Section 5.2, the experiments explore several real-world DAGs. However, the presented results indicate whether the generated DAGs can substitute training DAGs, which seems insufficient. For instance, the generated graphs have different layer counts than the actual DAGs. A more pertinent question would be whether the generated DAGs are suitable for downstream tasks. Although validating hardware DAGs might be challenging, it should be feasible to assess the relevance of other types of DAGs for specific applications (e.g., with the TPU Tile dataset).", "questions": "1.\tGiven that the topological ordering of a DAG is not unique, how does the layered representation remain consistent for a given DAG? Was any consideration given to the ordering of nodes within each layer?\n2.\tWhat is the rationale for seeking permutation invariance when generating DAGs?\n3.\tIs it possible to validate the generated DAGs for the TPU Tile datasets experimentally, without relying on a surrogate model?", "flag_for_ethics_review": ["No ethics review needed."], "rating": 6, "confidence": 3, "code_of_conduct": "Yes", "weakness": "1.\tThe authors state that \"LayerDAG is based on a novel perspective of DAGs: as illustrated in Fig. 1(b), the partial order of nodes dictated by the DAG structure can be decoupled as a sequence of tokens, each corresponding to a bipartite graph.\" However, this approach has been widely known for decades. For example, Tarjan’s topological ordering algorithm for a DAG uses a Depth-First Search (DFS) traversal to produce a linear ordering of vertices, ensuring that for every edge, the source vertex appears before the target vertex in the ordering. Surprisingly, the paper does not reference Tarjan’s method or other relevant work in this area.\nCitation: Tarjan, R. E. (1972). Depth-first search and linear graph algorithms. SIAM Journal on Computing, 1(2), 146–160. doi:10.1137/0201010\n2.\tThe directional and ordered dependencies within a DAG structure are essential, meaning that order should be preserved. Thus, the motivation for seeking permutation invariance in this context is unclear. Furthermore, Proposition 3.1 lacks clarity, and a formal proof would help understand the proposition.\n3.\tIn Section 5.2, the experiments explore several real-world DAGs. However, the presented results indicate whether the generated DAGs can substitute training DAGs, which seems insufficient. For instance, the generated graphs have different layer counts than the actual DAGs. A more pertinent question would be whether the generated DAGs are suitable for downstream tasks. Although validating hardware DAGs might be challenging, it should be feasible to assess the relevance of other types of DAGs for specific applications (e.g., with the TPU Tile dataset).", "suggestions": "The paper's core idea of representing DAGs as a sequence of bipartite graphs, while not entirely novel, could still be valuable if presented with a more nuanced understanding of existing work. The authors should explicitly acknowledge and discuss the relationship between their layered representation and classical topological sorting algorithms, such as Tarjan's algorithm. This discussion should highlight the specific differences and advantages of their approach, rather than claiming complete novelty. Furthermore, the paper should clarify how the layered representation addresses the non-uniqueness of topological orderings. It's crucial to explain how the model ensures consistency in the generated DAGs despite the multiple possible topological orderings. The authors should provide a clear and formal definition of their layered representation, including the criteria for grouping nodes into layers and the rules for generating edges between layers. This would help to solidify the theoretical foundation of their approach and address the concerns about the lack of clarity in Proposition 3.1. A formal proof of this proposition would also be beneficial.\n\nThe motivation for seeking permutation invariance in the context of DAG generation needs further justification. Given that DAGs inherently encode directional dependencies, the rationale for this design choice is unclear. The authors should elaborate on the specific benefits of permutation invariance in their model and how it impacts the quality of the generated DAGs. It would be helpful to provide examples illustrating how permutation invariance is achieved and why it is desirable in this context. The authors should also consider the potential drawbacks of this approach, such as the loss of specific ordering information that might be relevant for certain applications. A more detailed discussion of these trade-offs would strengthen the paper's arguments. The authors should clarify whether the permutation invariance applies to node ordering within each layer, and if so, how this is handled during the generation process. This is important because the ordering of nodes within a layer could affect the structure of the generated DAG.\n\nThe experimental evaluation should be expanded to include more relevant metrics and tasks. The current evaluation focuses on comparing the statistics of generated DAGs with those of the training data, which is insufficient to demonstrate the practical utility of the proposed method. The authors should evaluate the generated DAGs on downstream tasks, such as those related to the TPU Tile dataset, to assess their suitability for real-world applications. This would provide a more compelling justification for the proposed approach. The authors should also explore the limitations of their method, such as the types of DAGs it can generate effectively and the computational cost of the generation process. A more comprehensive evaluation would help to identify the strengths and weaknesses of the proposed method and guide future research in this area. Specifically, the authors should explore the impact of different layer counts on the performance of the model and provide a more detailed analysis of the generated DAGs."}}, {"id": "PAc3ZOJUhx", "rating": 6, "content": {"summary": "The paper makes a compelling contribution by proposing a novel framework for DAG generation that addresses key challenges in modeling both logical and directional dependencies. The combination of autoregressive generation and diffusion models offers strong expressiveness, and the extensive experiments validate its practical utility. However, addressing the computational complexity and providing more interpretability would strengthen the work. Expanding the comparison with simpler models and exploring alternative encoding methods would also improve the empirical analysis. Nonetheless, the novelty and relevance of LayerDAG justify its acceptance.", "soundness": 3, "presentation": 3, "contribution": 3, "strengths": "Innovative Approach: The combination of autoregressive and diffusion models provides a novel framework for generating complex DAGs with strong dependencies.\n\nLayerwise Decomposition: The use of bipartite graphs for sequential layer generation improves scalability and reduces computational complexity.\n\nConditional Generation Capability: LayerDAG supports generating DAGs based on specific performance metrics, making it valuable for system benchmarking applications.", "weaknesses": "Computational Overhead: While the layerwise approach is efficient, the combination of autoregressive and diffusion methods can be computationally intensive for very large graphs.\n\nLimited Exploration of Alternative Encodings: The paper mainly focuses on sinusoidal encodings, without exploring other potential positional encodings.", "questions": "NA", "flag_for_ethics_review": ["No ethics review needed."], "rating": 6, "confidence": 3, "code_of_conduct": "Yes", "weakness": "Computational Overhead: While the layerwise approach is efficient, the combination of autoregressive and diffusion methods can be computationally intensive for very large graphs. The computational cost is not just a matter of scale, but also the iterative nature of the diffusion process, which requires multiple forward and backward passes through the network for each layer, potentially leading to significant overhead when generating DAGs with a large number of nodes and edges. This is further compounded by the autoregressive component, where the generation of each layer is conditioned on the previous ones, making parallelization challenging. \n\nLimited Exploration of Alternative Encodings: The paper mainly focuses on sinusoidal encodings, without exploring other potential positional encodings. While sinusoidal encodings are widely used, their suitability for representing the structural information in DAGs is not thoroughly justified. Other encodings, such as learned positional embeddings or graph-based encodings, might be more effective in capturing the complex relationships between nodes and layers, and could potentially improve the generation quality and efficiency.", "suggestions": "To address the computational overhead, the authors should investigate techniques to reduce the number of diffusion steps required for each layer, potentially through adaptive step sizes or more efficient sampling methods. For example, exploring techniques like DDIM (Denoising Diffusion Implicit Models) could allow for faster sampling with fewer steps, while maintaining the quality of the generated DAGs. Furthermore, the authors should consider methods to parallelize the generation process, especially within each layer, to reduce the overall runtime. This might involve exploring alternative architectures that are more amenable to parallel computation or developing techniques to decompose the generation process into independent sub-tasks. A detailed analysis of the computational cost, including the time and memory requirements for different graph sizes and complexities, would also be beneficial.\n\nRegarding positional encodings, the authors should explore a wider range of options beyond sinusoidal encodings. Learned positional embeddings, which are trained end-to-end with the model, could potentially capture more complex structural information specific to DAGs. Graph-based encodings, which leverage the graph structure to generate node representations, could also be a promising direction. For example, using graph neural networks (GNNs) to encode the graph structure before feeding it into the diffusion model could improve the model's ability to generate DAGs with desired properties. A comparative study of different encoding methods, including their impact on generation quality and computational efficiency, would be valuable. This analysis should include a discussion of the trade-offs between different encoding methods and their suitability for different types of DAGs. The authors should also consider the computational cost of different encoding methods, as some may be more expensive than others.\n\nFinally, the authors should provide a more thorough comparison with simpler baseline models. While the proposed method is novel, it is important to demonstrate its superiority over simpler alternatives, such as rule-based methods or simpler generative models. This comparison should include a variety of metrics, including not only the quality of the generated DAGs but also the computational cost and the ability to generate DAGs with specific properties. A more comprehensive empirical analysis, including a wider range of datasets and evaluation metrics, would further strengthen the paper's claims and provide a more complete understanding of the proposed method's strengths and limitations."}}, {"id": "kWotprt3zC", "rating": 8, "content": {"summary": "The paper presents a diffusion model LayerDAG for directed acyclic graphs (DAGs) based on a novel representation of DAGs as a sequence of bipartite graphs, each bipartite graph divided across nodes in the next layer of the DAG versus nodes in all previous layers of the DAG. This representation allows for layer-wise conditional generation of the DAG, which allows the model to better-learn logical rules. The experiments show that LayerDAG exceeds in learning hard logical rules, learning soft rules, and in generalization.", "soundness": 3, "presentation": 4, "contribution": 3, "strengths": "The paper's contributions stem from a novel formulation of a DAG as a sequence of layers. This formulation is original, non-trivial, and concise, and directly motivates the LayerDAG algorithm. The paper itself is quite clear and well-written. The experiments are comprehensive and clearly demonstrate the superior performance of LayerDAG over other autoregressive DAG models.", "weaknesses": "A minor weakness in the paper is that there is not enough discussion about the definition of LayerDAG across layers versus the usual definition of diffusion models across denoising steps. I elaborate more in the \"Questions\" section.", "questions": "Pg 6, proof of Proposition 3.1: what is does it mean to be \"permutation equivariant\"? Is this meant to read \"...invariant\"?\n\nThere is not enough discussion about how exactly the denoising steps interact with the successive layer-wise generation. It is not clear to me how the number of denoising steps relates to the number of layers. It is also jarring to read in S2 that in general diffusion generation is conditioned on previous steps, whereas in LayerDAG it is conditioned on previous layers. For example, the \"__Implementation__\" paragraph in page 5 reads \"Let $\\textbf{X}^{l+1,t}$ be the node attributes sampled for the $(l+1)^{\\text{th}}$ layer at the step $t$ in the reverse node attribute diffusion process.\" Is step $t$ nested under layer $l+1$, i.e. all steps $1,\\ldots,T$ occur in each layer, or do steps stretch over all layers? Similarly, S3.4 should be better-explained.", "flag_for_ethics_review": ["No ethics review needed."], "rating": 8, "confidence": 4, "code_of_conduct": "Yes", "weakness": "A minor weakness in the paper is that there is not enough discussion about the definition of LayerDAG across layers versus the usual definition of diffusion models across denoising steps. I elaborate more in the \"Questions\" section.", "suggestions": "The paper would benefit from a more detailed explanation of how the denoising process interacts with the layer-wise generation of the DAG. Specifically, the current description leaves ambiguity regarding the scope of the denoising steps. It is unclear whether the denoising steps are performed independently within each layer, or if they span across all layers. If the denoising steps are indeed nested within each layer, as suggested by the notation $\\textbf{X}^{l+1,t}$, then this should be explicitly stated and justified. For example, the authors could provide a concrete example of how the diffusion process unfolds across a simple 3-layer DAG, detailing the specific operations at each denoising step within each layer. This would clarify the relationship between the diffusion steps and the layer-wise structure of the DAG, and would help the reader better understand the mechanics of the LayerDAG algorithm.\n\nFurthermore, the paper should elaborate on the implications of this layer-wise diffusion approach. What are the advantages of performing diffusion within each layer, as opposed to a single diffusion process across the entire DAG? The authors should discuss how this design choice impacts the model's ability to learn complex dependencies and logical rules. For example, does this layer-wise approach introduce any inductive biases that favor certain types of DAG structures? A more thorough discussion of these aspects would strengthen the theoretical foundation of the paper and provide a deeper understanding of the model's behavior. It would also be beneficial to include a visualization of the diffusion process across layers, which could further enhance the reader's understanding of the model's dynamics. This visualization could show how the node attributes are progressively denoised within each layer, highlighting the layer-wise conditional generation process.\n\nFinally, the paper could benefit from a more detailed analysis of the computational complexity of the LayerDAG algorithm. While the layer-wise approach offers advantages in terms of learning logical rules, it may also introduce additional computational overhead. The authors should discuss the time and space complexity of the algorithm, and compare it to other autoregressive DAG models. This analysis should consider both the training and inference phases, and should provide insights into the scalability of the LayerDAG algorithm. A discussion of potential optimizations for reducing the computational cost would also be valuable. For example, are there any techniques that could be used to parallelize the denoising process across layers or within each layer? Addressing these practical considerations would make the paper more complete and useful for researchers interested in applying the LayerDAG algorithm."}}, {"id": "QuZVWb01M3", "rating": 8, "content": {"summary": "This paper proposes an autoregressive diffusion model to generate directed acyclic graph (DAG). This work observes that the DAG structure can be decoupled by a sequence of tokens, where each token corresponds to a bipartite graph. It is capable of generating larger DAGs (up to ~400 nodes). To validate the model, the paper compares the validity and statistical properties of the synthetic DAGs generated by the model with the baselines: computational graphs on TPU, flow graphs in FPGA, and Neural architectures on edge devices. They use the synthetic DAGs to train a ML-based surrogate model to measure the performance of systems (inference time, resource usage, etc.). And results show that the trained surrogate model outperformed ones that are trained on the baseline generative model.", "soundness": 3, "presentation": 3, "contribution": 3, "strengths": "* Make a novel observation that DAG can be viewed as a sequence of bipartite graphs, which preserve the partial ordering and are autoregressive-friendly.\n* Explore and discuss different design choices for DAG generative models, including separating three modules, positional encoding, etc.\n* LayerDAG is permutation invariant, achieving good generalization.\n* Different experiments to evaluate the proposed model quality on different tasks", "weaknesses": "* In the beginning of the introduction (line 51), the author mentioned that the one of the challenge in DAG is the training LLM workload execution DAG involves trillions of operations. But this work is capable of generating nodes up to 400 nodes, which seems not to be able to solve the challenge mentioned above.\n* In the beginning of the introduction (line 51), the author mentioned that one of the challenges in DAG is the training LLM workload execution DAG involves trillions of operations. But this work is capable of generating nodes up to 400 nodes, which seems not to be able to solve the challenge mentioned above. Or do the authors suggest that using DAG with 400 nodes could capture the characteristics of a trillion of nodes? How do you get the logical constraints from the real-world large DAG for the synthetic DAG generation?\n* In D-VAE, they have additional experiments to evaluate the model quality, like reconstruction accuracy. Would like to see the comparison on those experiments.\n\nMinor issue\n* The symbol for DAG are not consistent (line 143 vs. line 207)", "questions": "Questions\n* What is the maximum number of layers of DAG your model could generate?\n* Is LayerDAG able to capture more complex logical constraints other than the number of predecessors? \n* Do you have explanations for the better performance of baseline models in Table 3, specifically HLS dataset?", "flag_for_ethics_review": ["No ethics review needed."], "rating": 8, "confidence": 2, "code_of_conduct": "Yes", "weakness": " * In the beginning of the introduction (line 51), the author mentioned that the one of the challenge in DAG is the training LLM workload execution DAG involves trillions of operations. But this work is capable of generating nodes up to 400 nodes, which seems not to be able to solve the challenge mentioned above.\n* In the beginning of the introduction (line 51), the author mentioned that one of the challenges in DAG is the training LLM workload execution DAG involves trillions of operations. But this work is capable of generating nodes up to 400 nodes, which seems not to be able to solve the challenge mentioned above. Or do the authors suggest that using DAG with 400 nodes could capture the characteristics of a trillion of nodes? How do you get the logical constraints from the real-world large DAG for the synthetic DAG generation?\n* In D-VAE, they have additional experiments to evaluate the model quality, like reconstruction accuracy. Would like to see the comparison on those experiments.\n\nMinor issue\n* The symbol for DAG are not consistent (line 143 vs. line 207)", "suggestions": "The paper's introduction highlights the challenge of handling DAGs with trillions of operations, yet the proposed model only generates DAGs with up to 400 nodes. This discrepancy raises questions about the practical applicability of the model to the stated problem. While generating smaller DAGs can be useful, the paper needs to clarify how these synthetic DAGs can capture the essential characteristics of much larger, real-world DAGs. Specifically, the authors should elaborate on the methodology used to extract logical constraints from large-scale DAGs and incorporate them into the generation process. This could involve analyzing statistical properties, structural motifs, or other relevant features of real-world DAGs to ensure the synthetic graphs are representative. Without a clear explanation of this process, the model's ability to address the challenges posed by large-scale DAGs remains questionable. Furthermore, the paper should provide a more detailed discussion on the limitations of the current approach in handling DAGs with significantly more nodes. \n\nTo strengthen the evaluation, the authors should include a comparison of reconstruction accuracy, similar to what is done in D-VAE. This would provide a more comprehensive assessment of the model's ability to capture the underlying structure and properties of DAGs. The current evaluation focuses primarily on the validity and statistical properties of the generated DAGs, but reconstruction accuracy is a crucial metric for generative models. It directly measures how well the model can learn the distribution of the training data, which is essential for generating realistic and meaningful samples. By adding this evaluation, the paper would provide a more complete picture of the model's performance and allow for a more direct comparison with other generative models. This additional evaluation would also help to identify potential areas for improvement in the model's architecture and training process.\n\nFinally, the paper should address the minor inconsistency in the notation for DAGs. While this is a minor issue, it can cause confusion for the reader and detract from the overall clarity of the paper. Maintaining consistent notation throughout the paper is crucial for ensuring that the technical details are easily understood and followed. The authors should carefully review the paper and ensure that all symbols and notations are used consistently. This attention to detail will enhance the paper's readability and credibility. Additionally, the authors should consider providing a more detailed explanation of the positional encoding method used in the model. While the paper mentions the use of positional encoding, it lacks a thorough discussion of the specific implementation and its impact on the model's performance. A more detailed explanation would help readers better understand the model's architecture and its ability to capture the sequential nature of DAGs."}}, {"id": "SuRJYsCP21", "rating": 8, "content": {"summary": "This submission proposes a generative model, based on autoregression and dffusion, for Direct Acyclic Graph generation (DAG). The problem under study is relevant for the general scientific community with broad applicability in many crucial systems. \n\nThe main idea behind the method presented is to transform the topological order induced by the DAG into a series of bipartite graphs that capture sequential dependencies of the tasks represented within the DAG. This idea enables the authors to sequentially generate sets of nodes as if they were a layer of the DAG, overcoming issues with partial ordering of nodes within the topological order of the graph. This is where the autoregressive component of the algorithm comes in, as the generation of a new set of nodes is dependent on the previous layers generated by the model.\n\nThe authors propose evaluation on a new synthetic dataset capable of capturing logical dependencies between nodes of different layers with multiple levels of hard logical constraints. This evaluation method attempts to capture the generative model's ability to impose logical dependencies between nodes. The proposed model is further evaluated on the ability to generate DAGs that mimick the properties of DAG property prediction benchmark (supported by an ML-surrogate approach, following related work in the area) and generalization of generated label values. The proposed model shows better performance than related work using the chosen evaluation metrics.", "soundness": 4, "presentation": 4, "contribution": 3, "strengths": "- The method is simple, easy to understand and solidly rooted on a wealth of methodology on autoregressive diffusion models.\n- The simplicity of the method does not detract the ingenuity of transforming the topological partial ordering into a sequence of bipartite graphs, leveraging that for generation.\n- The authors are not over-reliant on mathematical formulation to describe their method (often a problem with diffusion based contributions), striking a balance between textual/intuitive explanations with easy to follow maths.\n- Contribution of a synthetic dataset is extremely positive, as it helps testing for a wide range of possibilities that are often not considered with benchmarking datasets (that, in turn, are often not predictive of performance in real-world problems).", "weaknesses": "- Although the authors claim a significant increase in the number of nodes generated per DAG (from 24 to 400), this is still far from truly complex DAGs that can number in the thousands.\n\n- There is a lack of critical analysis on the experimental results and the variations in performance of the proposed method. For example, the difference in LayerDAG with a single denoising step to the full algorithm for some benchmarks are negligible, it would be good to have some insight on why and in which conditions is it worth performing multiple denoising steps (and the impact in training time).", "questions": "Overall I do not have many questions as I believe this is a high quality submission, however:\n\n- As mentioned in the weaknesses section, I think the paper would be improved by a critical analysis of the experimental results. I understand that space limitations can prevent this, but a high quality discussion of results is more valuable than quantity of benchmarks. For example, how significant is a difference in Pearson correlation of **at most** 0.2 in the generalization benchmark? Is the model able to generalize at all, even if the coefficient is slightly higher than the baselines?\n\n- What is the impact of a BiMPNN instead of considering message passing solely along the direction of the edges?\n\n- If the complexity of generation increases per layer, have you considered using an exponential denoising schedule?", "flag_for_ethics_review": ["No ethics review needed."], "rating": 8, "confidence": 3, "code_of_conduct": "Yes", "weakness": " - Although the authors claim a significant increase in the number of nodes generated per DAG (from 24 to 400), this is still far from truly complex DAGs that can number in the thousands.\n\n- There is a lack of critical analysis on the experimental results and the variations in performance of the proposed method. For example, the difference in LayerDAG with a single denoising step to the full algorithm for some benchmarks are negligible, it would be good to have some insight on why and in which conditions is it worth performing multiple denoising steps (and the impact in training time).", "suggestions": "The paper would benefit from a more thorough investigation into the scaling limitations of the proposed method. While generating DAGs with 400 nodes is a step forward, many real-world applications involve DAGs with thousands or even tens of thousands of nodes. The authors should explore the computational bottlenecks that prevent the model from scaling to larger graphs. This could involve analyzing the memory footprint and runtime complexity of the diffusion process, particularly as the number of layers and nodes per layer increases. Furthermore, it would be beneficial to investigate techniques for reducing the computational cost of the denoising steps, such as using more efficient neural network architectures or exploring alternative sampling strategies. A discussion of the practical limitations of the method in terms of memory and time requirements for larger DAGs would also be valuable, as well as potential strategies to mitigate these limitations.\n\nFurthermore, the experimental section lacks a detailed analysis of the impact of the number of denoising steps on the performance of the model. The observation that a single denoising step achieves comparable results to the full algorithm in some benchmarks raises questions about the necessity of multiple denoising steps in those scenarios. The authors should provide a more in-depth analysis of the trade-offs between the number of denoising steps, the quality of the generated DAGs, and the computational cost. This analysis should include a discussion of the conditions under which multiple denoising steps are beneficial, as well as the potential for overfitting or diminishing returns with an excessive number of steps. It would also be useful to investigate the impact of different denoising schedules on the performance of the model, as the current approach uses a linear schedule, which may not be optimal for all DAG generation tasks.\n\nFinally, the paper should include a more detailed discussion of the generalization capabilities of the model. While the authors report a higher Pearson correlation compared to baselines, the absolute values still indicate limited generalization. A deeper analysis of the types of logical dependencies that the model can and cannot capture would be valuable. This could involve examining the generated DAGs and identifying patterns or structures that the model struggles to reproduce. Furthermore, it would be beneficial to investigate the impact of different training data distributions on the generalization performance of the model. The authors should also consider exploring alternative evaluation metrics that are more sensitive to the generalization capabilities of the model, such as metrics that measure the diversity and complexity of the generated DAGs."}}]