[{"id": "SbPEe3lMB5", "rating": 5, "content": {"summary": "The paper presents Hive, an agent-based system that selects and coordinates models to execute complex tasks based on user instructions. Hive creates explainable plans using atomic actions across various models, guided by formal logic and PDDL operations, ensuring transparency and adherence to user constraints. The authors also introduce the MuSE benchmark to evaluate multimodal capabilities in agent systems. Results show that Hive outperforms other systems in task selection and transparency.", "soundness": 2, "presentation": 2, "contribution": 2, "strengths": "The KG construction method is thorough, utilizing model metadata from multiple sources to enhance graph quality. The entire planning pipeline demonstrates a clear improvement over prior work, such as HuggingGPT. Additionally, the writing is well-structured and easy to follow, which supports reader comprehension.", "weaknesses": "This paper has several notable weaknesses:\n\nFirst, it feels like the approach relies heavily on leveraging a powerful LLM to decompose user tasks based on key attributes, selecting open-source models from Huggingface, and executing plans sequentially. In essence, the paper presents a tool-usage framework where the tools are Huggingface models. While there are some unique designs for processing and indexing these models, the contribution appears marginal. The problem-solving paradigm closely resembles prior works, such as HuggingGPT. Additionally, the paper lacks baseline comparisons, particularly in evaluating why their proposed KG construction method is optimal or how it could be further applied in other scenarios.\n\nThe experimental design raises concerns as well. Although the authors introduce a new evaluation benchmark, it is based on an in-house dataset. It’s unsurprising that the method performs well on this dataset, but it lacks validation on standard benchmarks, such as classical VQA datasets for multimodal evaluation.\n\nOn a broader level, the necessity of maintaining a Huggingface model graph is questionable. As more cheap and advanced models (e.g., GPT-5, LLaMA-4, lower-cost GPT-4o) emerge with capabilities for comprehensive task handling, the reliance on a graph of smaller, domain-specific models may become obsolete. While a graph of non-LLM-based APIs remains valuable (e.g., calculators outperforms LLMs in calculation), most small LLM functionalities in the current graph could eventually be covered by future, more capable LLMs. This brings into question the core motivation behind the paper’s studied topic.", "questions": "Could you please test the pipeline or more baselines on more widely used benchmarks in multimodal domains?\n\nWould you provide more examples about how the KG looks like and an entire planning example from scratch?", "flag_for_ethics_review": ["No ethics review needed."], "rating": 5, "confidence": 3, "code_of_conduct": "Yes", "weakness": "This paper has several notable weaknesses:\n\nFirst, it feels like the approach relies heavily on leveraging a powerful LLM to decompose user tasks based on key attributes, selecting open-source models from Huggingface, and executing plans sequentially. In essence, the paper presents a tool-usage framework where the tools are Huggingface models. While there are some unique designs for processing and indexing these models, the contribution appears marginal. The problem-solving paradigm closely resembles prior works, such as HuggingGPT. Additionally, the paper lacks baseline comparisons, particularly in evaluating why their proposed KG construction method is optimal or how it could be further applied in other scenarios.\n\nThe experimental design raises concerns as well. Although the authors introduce a new evaluation benchmark, it is based on an in-house dataset. It’s unsurprising that the method performs well on this dataset, but it lacks validation on standard benchmarks, such as classical VQA datasets for multimodal evaluation.\n\nOn a broader level, the necessity of maintaining a Huggingface model graph is questionable. As more cheap and advanced models (e.g., GPT-5, LLaMA-4, lower-cost GPT-4o) emerge with capabilities for comprehensive task handling, the reliance on a graph of smaller, domain-specific models may become obsolete. While a graph of non-LLM-based APIs remains valuable (e.g., calculators outperforms LLMs in calculation), most small LLM functionalities in the current graph could eventually be covered by future, more capable LLMs. This brings into question the core motivation behind the paper’s studied topic.", "suggestions": "The paper would significantly benefit from a more rigorous evaluation on established multimodal benchmarks. While the introduction of the MuSE benchmark is a positive step, its in-house nature raises concerns about generalizability. The authors should consider evaluating their system on datasets such as VQA v2, or the Visual Genome dataset, which are widely used for assessing multimodal capabilities. This would provide a clearer picture of how Hive performs compared to existing state-of-the-art methods and help to validate the effectiveness of their approach beyond their specific dataset. Furthermore, it would be beneficial to compare against more baselines, particularly those that employ different planning strategies or model selection techniques, to better isolate the impact of the proposed KG construction and PDDL-based planning. A more comprehensive evaluation would strengthen the paper's claims and provide a more robust understanding of the system's capabilities and limitations.\n\nTo address the concern about the marginal contribution, the authors should provide a more in-depth analysis of their KG construction method. Specifically, they should compare their approach to alternative methods for indexing and retrieving models, such as simpler keyword-based searches or other graph-based techniques. This would help to justify the complexity of their approach and demonstrate its advantages over simpler alternatives. Furthermore, the paper should explore the potential of the KG beyond model selection, such as for adaptive task planning or model composition. This would broaden the scope of the contribution and highlight the versatility of the proposed framework. For example, the authors could investigate how the KG could be used to dynamically adjust the plan based on the intermediate results or to combine multiple models to achieve more complex tasks. Such an analysis would demonstrate the potential of the KG as a core component of a more advanced multi-agent system.\n\nFinally, the paper needs to address the long-term viability of maintaining a Huggingface model graph in the face of rapidly advancing large language models. While the current approach may be effective, the authors should discuss how their system could adapt to the emergence of more capable models that may render the current graph obsolete. For example, they could explore the possibility of integrating these models into their framework or using the graph to guide the selection of the most appropriate model for a given task, even if that model is a single, large language model. Additionally, the authors should consider the potential of extending their approach to other types of resources, such as APIs or external tools, which may be more resilient to the rapid advancements in LLM technology. This would broaden the applicability of their framework and ensure its relevance in the long term."}}, {"id": "lwucYFv5Bo", "rating": 6, "content": {"summary": "This paper proposes a new system, HIVE, that coordinates instructions and task executions across models. HIVE also explains steps being taken. HIVE incorporates a capability knowledge graph to organize and retrieve model capabilities and it uses PDDL, a formal logic approach to assist with planning. To thoroughly evaluate, they also developed a new multi-modal benchmark, MuSE, consisting of complex, multi-modal queries. They demonstrate that HIVE outperforms competitors such as HuggingGPT and ControlLLM on MuSE.", "soundness": 3, "presentation": 3, "contribution": 3, "strengths": "Originality\n-They claim to be the first multiple model approach to leverage PDDL. \n-Their approach consists of intuitive steps, achieved using new ideas such as PDDL for planning and C-KG for model selection.\n-The multi-modal benchmark data set appears to be a new contribution in the multiple model task domain. More clarity here would be great, see my comments below.\n\nQuality\n-The idea of using model cards systematically to leverage new models is very practical and useful. I can see this being helpful for doing this at scale (say you have 1000+ models from which to choose).\n-HIVE outperforms the competing models on their more challenging dataset (MuSE)\n\nClarity\n-Overall, the steps in their system: parse user prompt → plan → select models → execute is clear and intuitive.\n\nSignificance\n-They solve the problem of model selection based on many constraints: hardware (model size), licensing, and model performance. This is going to be increasingly important for multi-agent/multiple model systems.", "weaknesses": "-PDDL was not defined until later in the paper - define it in the abstract and/or introduction.\n-Not clear if MuSE will be openly available\n-The interaction between PDDL and LLM (ChatGPT) in task decomposition could be made clearer - what exactly is the LLM doing and how is it leveraging PDDL? I think since PDDL could be new for readers, being clear here is very important.", "questions": "-I suggest making the abstract more crisp and making the distinction of this work very clear right away.\n\n-Figure 2 needs to be cleaned up - time is in seconds? The numbers look crowded in the image.\n\n-How does this dataset compare with the function-calling datasets? Is the key difference that these queries require model calls as solutions (rather than API/function calls)?\n\n-Will MuSE be open source? \n\n-Are there multi-modal query-trajectory datasets in the computer vision community? If so, how do those compare with your multi-modal dataset?", "flag_for_ethics_review": ["No ethics review needed."], "rating": 6, "confidence": 3, "code_of_conduct": "Yes", "weakness": "-PDDL was not defined until later in the paper - define it in the abstract and/or introduction.\n-Not clear if MuSE will be openly available\n-The interaction between PDDL and LLM (ChatGPT) in task decomposition could be made clearer - what exactly is the LLM doing and how is it leveraging PDDL? I think since PDDL could be new for readers, being clear here is very important.", "suggestions": "The abstract should be revised to more clearly articulate the core contributions of this work, especially the novelty of using PDDL for multi-model coordination. It's crucial to immediately establish the distinction from existing multi-agent or function-calling approaches. Specifically, the abstract should highlight how PDDL enables formal planning and reasoning over model capabilities, which is a key differentiator. The current abstract is too general and doesn't emphasize the unique aspects of the HIVE system. Furthermore, the introduction should also explicitly define PDDL and briefly explain its role in the system. This will help readers unfamiliar with formal planning methods to understand the core mechanics of HIVE. Without this, the reader may struggle to grasp the significance of the proposed approach.\n\nFigure 2 needs significant improvement to enhance readability. The current plot is too dense, making it difficult to interpret the results. The time axis should explicitly state the units (seconds), and the numbers should be better spaced to avoid overlap. Consider using a different plotting style or adjusting the font size to improve clarity. Additionally, the caption should be more descriptive, explaining what the plot is showing and what conclusions can be drawn from it. It would also be helpful to include error bars or confidence intervals to provide a sense of the variability in the measurements. The current presentation of the data is not sufficient to support the claims made in the paper. The authors should also consider adding a table with the exact numbers.\n\nThe paper should provide a more detailed explanation of how the LLM (ChatGPT) interacts with PDDL for task decomposition. It is not clear what role the LLM plays in generating the PDDL problem description or how it uses the PDDL plan. A concrete example would be very helpful. For instance, show how a user query is translated into a PDDL problem, and how the resulting plan is executed by the system. This would clarify the interplay between the symbolic planning and the language model. The authors should also explain how the LLM handles cases where the PDDL plan is not directly executable and how the system recovers from failures. A more detailed explanation of this interaction is crucial for understanding the technical contribution of the paper."}}, {"id": "kJdsuouthf", "rating": 5, "content": {"summary": "The paper proposes HIVE, a PDDL-based system to fulfill with user requirements with a large set of foundational models. The system can perform complex actions within given constraints\nin an explainable manner.\n\nThe paper also proposes a MUSE benchmark to evaluate the multi-modal performance of such agent systems.", "soundness": 2, "presentation": 2, "contribution": 2, "strengths": "The papers proposes a method to automatically extract models with capabilities of various modalities from Hugging Face, and explains in details the methodology.\n\nThe automatic system also ease the user query but automatically choose the correct model from the pool as the detailed requirement by user in natural language, which is quite meaningful for the rapid-growing multi-modal foundational models in the community.\n\nExperiments show that even the light version can beat the baselines much except for the image-to-audio case. Experiments on the trustworthiness and robustness also show the advantage of HIVE as an explainable system.", "weaknesses": "Although an automatic exaction system designed, the number of final candidates for HIVE are unknown. Appendix A only mentions a very small sets of models, most of them fall behind SOTA much (e.g. in image generation, machine translation, text generation). (also see questions)\n\nThe paper fails to mention the context why such a system is necessary given that most recent foundational models are for general purpose in its specific modality or multi-modality domain, and user can easily choose a model from public leaderboard or knowledge, if the candidates of HIVE is only a limited set of models which are not necessarily SOTA.\n\nHIVE fails completely (0.0 score) on image-to-audio, 1 of the 6 settings in Table 2, casting doubt on the generalizability of the system.\n\nIt's unclear how many modalities and multi-modality settings are covered in main text without looking into appendix. The list shall be small and should be put into main text to give readers a clearer view of the evaluation settings. There also lacks a concrete example of the possible user query HIVE is designed for until section 4.5, making the paper hard to understand.", "questions": "+ How many models are selected from Hugging Face as the candidates? Since the community is growing rapidly, will the models from earlier years (with worse performance) be actually selected to perform actions? What's the distribution on model years?\n+ It's commonly agreed that recent API-based large models (e.g. GPT-4 series, Gemini) performs better than open-sourced models available on Hugging Face. Have those models been taken into account?\n+ Many models are very similar in expertise, since recent community mostly focus on *general*-usage foundational model. What's the importance of such system to choose models from a pool? How many models will be actually selected with common instructions (smallest, best)?\n+ Is there any insights why HIVE fails on image-to-audio task? The system should be general enough in modality given the wide availability of multi-modal models, and the 0.0 result can hurt much the overall assessment and actual deployment of HIVE or HIVE-based system.", "flag_for_ethics_review": ["No ethics review needed."], "rating": 5, "confidence": 3, "code_of_conduct": "Yes", "weakness": "Although an automatic exaction system designed, the number of final candidates for HIVE are unknown. Appendix A only mentions a very small sets of models, most of them fall behind SOTA much (e.g. in image generation, machine translation, text generation). (also see questions)\n\nThe paper fails to mention the context why such a system is necessary given that most recent foundational models are for general purpose in its specific modality or multi-modality domain, and user can easily choose a model from public leaderboard or knowledge, if the candidates of HIVE is only a limited set of models which are not necessarily SOTA.\n\nHIVE fails completely (0.0 score) on image-to-audio, 1 of the 6 settings in Table 2, casting doubt on the generalizability of the system.\n\nIt's unclear how many modalities and multi-modality settings are covered in main text without looking into appendix. The list shall be small and should be put into main text to give readers a clearer view of the evaluation settings. There also lacks a concrete example of the possible user query HIVE is designed for until section 4.5, making the paper hard to understand.", "suggestions": "The paper should explicitly state the number of models considered by the HIVE framework, and provide a clear rationale for the selection of these models. While the automatic extraction system is a valuable contribution, the paper needs to justify why a user would select a model from HIVE's pool instead of directly using a state-of-the-art model from a public leaderboard. The paper should also discuss the criteria used to select models from the Hugging Face repository, and how these criteria ensure that the models are relevant and effective for the intended tasks. A detailed analysis of the performance of the selected models, including their strengths and weaknesses, should be included in the appendix.\n\nThe failure of HIVE on the image-to-audio task is a significant concern that needs to be addressed more thoroughly. The paper should provide a detailed explanation of why the system fails in this specific case, and discuss potential solutions to overcome this limitation. The authors should also analyze the impact of this failure on the overall generalizability of the HIVE system. It is crucial to understand whether this is an isolated issue or a symptom of a more fundamental problem with the system's design. A more robust evaluation of the system's performance across different modalities is needed to establish its reliability and generalizability. The paper should also include a more detailed description of the modalities and multi-modality settings covered by the system in the main text, rather than relegating this information to the appendix.\n\nTo improve the readability and clarity of the paper, the authors should provide a concrete example of a user query that HIVE is designed to handle earlier in the paper. This example should illustrate the system's capabilities and demonstrate how it can be used to solve real-world problems. The paper should also discuss the limitations of the system and identify areas for future research. The authors should also clarify the role of the 'parser & rephraser' module and how it affects the task decomposition step, especially in light of the image-to-audio failure. A more detailed explanation of the system's architecture and its various components would be beneficial for the reader."}}]