[{"id": "RtKuCQqmb8", "rating": 6, "content": {"summary": "The paper introduces CO-MOT, a method that enhances the performance of end-to-end Transformer-based MOT. It addresses issues in the existing framework where label assignment fails to fully utilize detection queries due to the exclusive nature of detection and tracking queries. To overcome this, a coopetition alternative is proposed for training intermediate decoders. Additionally, a shadow set is developed to augment queries and mitigate training imbalances caused by one-to-one matching. The experiments are conducted on MOT17, BDD100k and DanceTrack.", "soundness": "3 good", "presentation": "2 fair", "contribution": "2 fair", "strengths": "+ This paper mentioned that there is a large amount of post-processing in non-end-to-end methods in the MOT field, which leads to difficulties in parameter tuning in application. In this paper, some improvements have been made based on existing end-to-end methods, resulting in certain speed and accuracy improvements.\n\n+ This paper analyzes the shortcomings of existing e2e-MOT models and proposes a new network design strategy based on the analyses.", "weaknesses": "- The layout of the article is quite chaotic. Figure 1 is used as an example in the method introduction, but it is too far from the text information. For another example, in Section 3.2 of the introduction of strategies and methods, formulas are mixed in a large paragraph without a comprehensive formula or image description, making it difficult for readers to understand. The reviewer must refer to the paper of the baseline tracker MOTR for a comprehensive understanding. The authors should re-organize the method introduction and include a detailed figure to highlight the technical improvements of the new approach, including both the label assignment and shadow set.\n\n- The comparisons with more tracking approaches on the BDD100k or DanceTrack datasets are required to demonstrate the performance improvement.", "questions": "Please see the Weaknesses section.", "flag_for_ethics_review": ["No ethics review needed."], "rating": "6: marginally above the acceptance threshold", "confidence": "2: You are willing to defend your assessment, but it is quite likely that you did not understand the central parts of the submission or that you are unfamiliar with some pieces of related work. Math/other details were not carefully checked.", "code_of_conduct": "Yes", "weakness": "- The layout of the article is quite chaotic. Figure 1 is used as an example in the method introduction, but it is too far from the text information. For another example, in Section 3.2 of the introduction of strategies and methods, formulas are mixed in a large paragraph without a comprehensive formula or image description, making it difficult for readers to understand. The reviewer must refer to the paper of the baseline tracker MOTR for a comprehensive understanding. The authors should re-organize the method introduction and include a detailed figure to highlight the technical improvements of the new approach, including both the label assignment and shadow set.\n\n- The comparisons with more tracking approaches on the BDD100k or DanceTrack datasets are required to demonstrate the performance improvement.", "suggestions": "The paper's primary weakness lies in its presentation, particularly in the method explanation. The current structure makes it challenging to grasp the core technical contributions without prior deep knowledge of the baseline MOTR. The paper introduces a coopetition training strategy and a shadow set for label assignment, but these are not clearly illustrated. A detailed diagram is needed that visually separates the standard MOTR architecture from the proposed CO-MOT, highlighting the specific modules responsible for coopetition and shadow set implementation. This diagram should include the flow of information, the specific queries involved, and how the shadow set augments the training process. Furthermore, the mathematical notations used in Section 3.2 should be explicitly linked to the diagram, ensuring each symbol is clearly defined within the context of the proposed architecture. Without a clear visual and descriptive explanation of these novel components, the reader is left to infer the technical details, which significantly hinders the paper's accessibility and impact.\n\nThe experimental evaluation also needs to be strengthened. While the paper presents results on MOT17, BDD100k, and DanceTrack, the comparisons, particularly on BDD100k and DanceTrack, are limited. The authors should include more recent and state-of-the-art tracking methods in their comparisons to provide a more comprehensive analysis of their method's performance. For instance, including results from other transformer-based trackers or recent non-end-to-end approaches would allow for a more robust evaluation of the proposed method. This would also help to contextualize the improvements achieved by CO-MOT and demonstrate its advantages against a wider range of competitors. Furthermore, a more detailed analysis of the performance on different types of sequences within the datasets (e.g., crowded scenes, varying lighting conditions) would provide a more nuanced understanding of the strengths and weaknesses of the proposed approach.\n\nTo improve the paper, the authors should consider a complete restructuring of the method section, starting with a clear overview of the problem, the limitations of existing approaches, and the motivation behind CO-MOT. This should be followed by a detailed description of the proposed architecture, using clear diagrams and well-defined mathematical notations. The experimental section should be expanded to include more comprehensive comparisons with state-of-the-art methods and a more detailed analysis of the results. Addressing these points will significantly improve the clarity, impact, and overall quality of the paper."}}, {"id": "dtTFU9k3yD", "rating": 8, "content": {"summary": "The paper works on an end-to-end Multi-Object Tracking problem via a query-based Transformer, which assumes that the existing label assignment leads to scarce positive samples for detecting newborns. With this limitation in training, this paper observes a tracking terminal without renewal or re-initialization compared to other tracking-by-detection methods. To remedy this issue, this work presents Co-MOT by matching detection queries to all the tracked and untracked targets. Additionally, each query is augmented by a set with limited disturbance to itself. CO-MOT, with extra costs, achieves 69.4 HOTA on DanceTrack and 52.8 TETA on BDD100K, making it 1.4 times faster than the previous approach MOTRv2.", "soundness": "4 excellent", "presentation": "3 good", "contribution": "4 excellent", "strengths": "Deep observation of the existing approaches: This paper provides qualitative results in Figure 1 and quantitative results in Table 1 to bring the readers to what has been done to the existing e2e-MOT via Transformer. The bipartite matching label assignment in the previous approaches has a limitation regarding the video task, compared to the image task, such as object detection. From this perspective, this work involves the inherent property of the e2e-MOT via Transformer and offers a promising solution to the limitation. The superior performance of the proposed method is inspiring, which only requires fewer FLOPS of MOTRv2 to achieve a similar performance. I reckon this work reveals the core problem of the Transformer-based e2e-MOT.\n\nSimple and effective solutions: The paper reveals that the target assignment on detection queries is scarce due to the exclusive tracking queries, leading to unbalanced training. The proposed coopetition label assignment solves this problem by allowing the detection queries to match all the targets in the intermediate decoders except the last decoder. This simple solution can effectively recall newborn detection in the intermediate decoders while keeping standard MOT in the final outputs.  In addition, the shadow concept is introduced to augment each query in a feature-augmentation manner. A bulk of ablations are provided to demonstrate the effectiveness of each proposed solution.", "weaknesses": "Missing experiments on more models: In Section 3.2, this paper mentions that we revisit the Tracking Aware Label Assignment (TALA) used to train end-to-end Transformers such as MOTR and TrackFormer for MOT. However, all the ablations are conducted on MOTR. I cannot find evidence that COLA and shadow work on other models like TrackFormer. The authors should provide results of TrackFormer on two datasets at least to make the proposed solutions more solid.\n\nComparison of failure cases: The failure cases shown in Figure 5 are the common cases of all the Transformer-based approaches.  The authors should provide the failure cases of previous approaches and denote which kind of case has been solved by CO-MOT.", "questions": "In Table 2, the authors categorize all the methods into Non-End-to-end and End-to-end. What are the exact definitions of these two categories? Also, it will be better to list all the methods using Transformer. \n\nIn Figure 4, do the FLOPs of the MOTR include the YOLOX detector? What are the specific numbers of parameters for different approaches? The specific number of parameters should be indicated in Figure 4. For example, the number can be placed in circles.", "flag_for_ethics_review": ["No ethics review needed."], "details_of_ethics_concerns": "n/a", "rating": "8: accept, good paper", "confidence": "4: You are confident in your assessment, but not absolutely certain. It is unlikely, but not impossible, that you did not understand some parts of the submission or that you are unfamiliar with some pieces of related work.", "code_of_conduct": "Yes", "weakness": "Missing experiments on more models: In Section 3.2, this paper mentions that we revisit the Tracking Aware Label Assignment (TALA) used to train end-to-end Transformers such as MOTR and TrackFormer for MOT. However, all the ablations are conducted on MOTR. I cannot find evidence that COLA and shadow work on other models like TrackFormer. The authors should provide results of TrackFormer on two datasets at least to make the proposed solutions more solid.\n\nComparison of failure cases: The failure cases shown in Figure 5 are the common cases of all the Transformer-based approaches.  The authors should provide the failure cases of previous approaches and denote which kind of case has been solved by CO-MOT.", "suggestions": "The paper's core contribution lies in its analysis of the limitations of bipartite matching in end-to-end MOT Transformers and the introduction of the coopetition label assignment (COLA) and shadow set augmentation. While the results on MOTR are compelling, the lack of experiments on other architectures like TrackFormer is a significant weakness. To strengthen the claims, the authors should demonstrate the generalizability of COLA and shadow set by including results on TrackFormer, ideally on both DanceTrack and BDD100K datasets. This would provide evidence that the proposed solutions are not specific to MOTR's architecture and can be broadly applied to other Transformer-based MOT models. Furthermore, the ablation studies should be expanded to include more granular analysis of the impact of different shadow set sizes and disturbance levels, which could provide valuable insights into the robustness of the proposed augmentation strategy.\n\nRegarding the failure cases, the current analysis in Figure 5 is insufficient to highlight the specific improvements made by CO-MOT. The authors should provide a more detailed comparison by showing failure cases of MOTR and other baseline methods alongside the corresponding cases where CO-MOT succeeds. This would involve a side-by-side comparison of the detection and tracking results, focusing on scenarios where MOTR struggles, such as occlusions, fast motion, and scale changes. For instance, if MOTR frequently loses track of objects during occlusions, the authors should demonstrate how CO-MOT maintains track in similar situations. This would provide a more compelling argument for the effectiveness of CO-MOT in addressing the limitations of existing end-to-end MOT methods. Additionally, a quantitative analysis of the failure cases, perhaps by categorizing them and reporting the frequency of each type, would further strengthen the analysis.\n\nFinally, the paper should provide a more thorough discussion of the computational overhead introduced by COLA and the shadow set augmentation. While the paper mentions that CO-MOT is faster than MOTRv2, it does not provide a detailed analysis of the computational cost of the proposed methods. Specifically, the authors should analyze the impact of the coopetition label assignment on training time and memory usage, as well as the computational cost of generating and processing the shadow sets. This analysis should include a breakdown of the FLOPs and parameter counts for each component of the model, which would allow the reader to better understand the trade-offs between performance and computational cost. Furthermore, the authors should discuss the potential for optimizing the implementation of COLA and shadow sets to further reduce their computational overhead."}}, {"id": "ezGqdBsQXZ", "rating": 6, "content": {"summary": "This paper proposes an end-to-end Transformer-based MOT method. It introduces a coopetition alternative for training the intermediate decoders, and also develops a shadow set as units to augment the queries. Experimental results on some public datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method.", "soundness": "3 good", "presentation": "3 good", "contribution": "2 fair", "strengths": "1. This paper is well written and organized. The S-COLA is also clearly explained.\n2. Experimental results on some public datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method.", "weaknesses": "1. For the tracking queries and the detection queries, they both self-attend each other and then cross-attend the image feature tokens. Intuitively, all the queries can perceive the whole image, and it is not good enough to split them into two parts, which may degrade the detection results.\n\n2.  Why not evaluate the proposed method on the crowded dataset MOT20? In crowd scenes, the tracking query has the similar semantic information with the detection query, and may fail to assign correct label in crowd scenes.\n\n3. In Table 1, the authors point out that the detection result of MOTR can be improved by removing the tracking queries. How about the proposed CO-MOT? If CO-MOT is only used as a detection task, and whether the tracking performance can be further improved?\n\n4. It is better to evaluate the effect of the number of decoders L on the tracking performance.\n\n5. Pease reorganize the formats of the references, and make them consistent.", "questions": "See the Weaknesses.", "flag_for_ethics_review": ["No ethics review needed."], "rating": "6: marginally above the acceptance threshold", "confidence": "5: You are absolutely certain about your assessment. You are very familiar with the related work and checked the math/other details carefully.", "code_of_conduct": "Yes", "weakness": "1. For the tracking queries and the detection queries, they both self-attend each other and then cross-attend the image feature tokens. Intuitively, all the queries can perceive the whole image, and it is not good enough to split them into two parts, which may degrade the detection results.\n\n2.  Why not evaluate the proposed method on the crowded dataset MOT20? In crowd scenes, the tracking query has the similar semantic information with the detection query, and may fail to assign correct label in crowd scenes.\n\n3. In Table 1, the authors point out that the detection result of MOTR can be improved by removing the tracking queries. How about the proposed CO-MOT? If CO-MOT is only used as a detection task, and whether the tracking performance can be further improved?\n\n4. It is better to evaluate the effect of the number of decoders L on the tracking performance.\n\n5. Pease reorganize the formats of the references, and make them consistent.", "suggestions": "The paper would benefit from a more thorough investigation into the interaction between detection and tracking queries. While the authors describe a coopetition mechanism, the fundamental issue of splitting queries into two distinct sets remains a concern. The self-attention within each set and subsequent cross-attention with image features might not be the most effective way to leverage the full image context. A more detailed analysis of how these queries learn different representations, and how these representations contribute to the final tracking and detection outputs is needed. For example, visualizing the attention maps for both types of queries could provide insights into their individual roles and potential redundancies. Furthermore, exploring alternative query initialization strategies or a unified query set that dynamically adapts to both tasks could be beneficial. The current approach risks creating a bottleneck where the model struggles to effectively combine information from both query sets, potentially limiting overall performance.\n\nRegarding the evaluation, the absence of results on the MOT20 dataset is a significant oversight. Given that this dataset is known for its crowded scenes, it is crucial to assess the method's robustness in such challenging scenarios. The reviewer's concern about the semantic similarity between tracking and detection queries in crowded scenes is valid. The paper should include experiments that specifically address this issue, perhaps by analyzing the performance of each query type in isolation or by visualizing the query assignments in crowded scenes. Furthermore, the paper should explore the impact of varying the ratio of tracking to detection queries, as this could reveal whether the model is truly learning to differentiate between the two tasks or if it is simply relying on a fixed number of each. A more comprehensive evaluation on MOT20, along with a detailed analysis of the query behavior in crowded scenes, is essential to validate the method's effectiveness.\n\nFinally, the paper should include a more detailed ablation study on the number of decoders. While the authors mention the number of decoders, they do not provide a clear rationale for choosing a specific number. It is important to investigate the impact of different decoder depths on both detection and tracking performance. Specifically, the paper should explore the trade-off between performance and computational cost as the number of decoders increases. This analysis should include not only the overall tracking performance but also the individual contributions of each decoder to the final output. Furthermore, the paper should explore whether different decoder depths are optimal for detection and tracking tasks separately, and if so, how to balance these requirements. A more thorough analysis of the decoder architecture is crucial to demonstrate the method's robustness and efficiency."}}, {"id": "g7mwaDzZVt", "rating": 3, "content": {"summary": "This paper is about using Transformer to perform multi-object tracking task. Authors introduce \"coopetition alternative\" strategy to train Transformer's decoders, also a \"shadow set\" is proposed to maintain a set of queries when tracking each object. Experiments are conducted on DanceTrack, BDD100K, MOT17 to compare with prior works.", "soundness": "2 fair", "presentation": "2 fair", "contribution": "2 fair", "strengths": "1) This paper comes with a good motivation by first analyzing the drawbacks transformer based trackers, such as MOTR and MOTRv2, then try proposing some improvements based on that.\n\n2) The idea of using a set of queries to track each object, is interesting. \n\n3) Results on DanceTrack seems to be strong, e.g. it is comparable to MOTRv2 from Table 2(a) and it is better than a recent work MeMOTR, which is also based on Transformer.", "weaknesses": "1) The performance is not stable across different datasets. For instance, the tracker cannot even achieve comparable performance with existing trackers such as GTR/PA3Former/GRTU on MOT17, which is by far the most widely used and trusted benchmark within MOT community. While authors claim that MOT17 is rather a small dataset to train transformer-based trackers, other ways such as using synthetic dataset[a] could be one option. \n\n Also the proposed tracker performs worse than the major baseline MOTRv2, which is also transformer-based, in terms of IDF1 and HOTA. In this case, it is a bit hard to justify that authors are making a direction towards improving MOTRv2. \n\nIn fact, I would stay away with a rather heavier tracker (Transformer with multiple layers and many parameters) that gives even worse performance on MOT17 than light-weight tracking-by-detection/regression based trackers that require way less data to train, while still work better on major tracking benchmarks.\n\n2) The current approach lacks some form of interpretability. For example, from this claim \"COLA and TALA on the different decoders,\", why different label assignment should be used in different decoders? What exactly happened inside the decoder part for Transformer-based MOT, is it solving data association exactly or approximately? It would be more advocated if authors could come up with a more insightful explanation for this, and it will also benefit readers.\n\n3) For the idea of using shadow set, too many engineering tricks such as min, max, operations are used, it would be much better if authors could come up with some mathematical formulations as a technical sound approach to replace these simple heuristics, so as to better justify the use of this method. For example, IMHO, how about borrowing ideas from particle filter, to use importance sampling to maintain a set of queries to track each object?\n\nReferences:\n[a] Motsynth: How can synthetic data help pedestrian detection and tracking? ICCV2021", "questions": "I see in Table 3(a) that adding COLA and shadow set both improves performance than not having them, but this is only tested on DanceTrack, would the COLA and shadow set also work better than not having them at all, on MOT17 validation set?", "flag_for_ethics_review": ["No ethics review needed."], "rating": "3: reject, not good enough", "confidence": "5: You are absolutely certain about your assessment. You are very familiar with the related work and checked the math/other details carefully.", "code_of_conduct": "Yes", "weakness": "1) The performance is not stable across different datasets. For instance, the tracker cannot even achieve comparable performance with existing trackers such as GTR/PA3Former/GRTU on MOT17, which is by far the most widely used and trusted benchmark within MOT community. While authors claim that MOT17 is rather a small dataset to train transformer-based trackers, other ways such as using synthetic dataset[a] could be one option. \n\n Also the proposed tracker performs worse than the major baseline MOTRv2, which is also transformer-based, in terms of IDF1 and HOTA. In this case, it is a bit hard to justify that authors are making a direction towards improving MOTRv2. \n\nIn fact, I would stay away with a rather heavier tracker (Transformer with multiple layers and many parameters) that gives even worse performance on MOT17 than light-weight tracking-by-detection/regression based trackers that require way less data to train, while still work better on major tracking benchmarks.\n\n2) The current approach lacks some form of interpretability. For example, from this claim \"COLA and TALA on the different decoders,\", why different label assignment should be used in different decoders? What exactly happened inside the decoder part for Transformer-based MOT, is it solving data association exactly or approximately? It would be more advocated if authors could come up with a more insightful explanation for this, and it will also benefit readers.\n\n3) For the idea of using shadow set, too many engineering tricks such as min, max, operations are used, it would be much better if authors could come up with some mathematical formulations as a technical sound approach to replace these simple heuristics, so as to better justify the use of this method. For example, IMHO, how about borrowing ideas from particle filter, to use importance sampling to maintain a set of queries to track each object?", "suggestions": "The paper introduces a \"coopetition alternative\" strategy and a \"shadow set\" for multi-object tracking using Transformers. However, the experimental results on MOT17, a widely accepted benchmark, are not competitive with existing methods, especially considering the computational cost of the proposed approach. While the authors present results on DanceTrack that are comparable to MOTRv2 and better than MeMOTR, the lack of consistent performance across datasets raises concerns about the generalizability of the method. The paper should provide a more thorough analysis of why the proposed method underperforms on MOT17, and explore alternative training strategies or data augmentation techniques, such as the use of synthetic data, to improve performance on this benchmark. It is crucial to demonstrate that the proposed method is not only effective on a specific dataset but also robust and reliable on more challenging and diverse datasets like MOT17.\n\nFurthermore, the paper lacks a clear explanation of the inner workings of the decoder part of the Transformer. The authors claim that different label assignments are used in different decoders, but the motivation and implications of this choice are not explained in detail. Specifically, it is unclear whether the decoder is solving data association exactly or approximately. A more detailed analysis of the decoder's behavior, perhaps through visualizations or ablation studies, would significantly improve the interpretability of the proposed method. For example, analyzing the attention maps within the decoder could provide insights into how the model is associating track queries with objects over time. This would also help to clarify the role of the COLA and TALA strategies and justify their use in different decoder layers, which is currently unclear.\n\nFinally, the use of simple heuristics like min and max operations for the shadow set is not technically sound. While these operations might be effective in practice, they lack a strong theoretical foundation. The authors should explore more principled methods for maintaining the set of queries for each object, such as using importance sampling from particle filters. This would not only make the method more technically sound but also potentially improve its performance. For example, instead of simply selecting the min or max scores, a weighted average based on the importance of each query could provide a more robust representation of the object state. This would also align the method with more established techniques in the field of object tracking and provide a clear direction for future research."}}]