[{"id": "YCtxJl90xJ", "rating": 5, "content": {"summary": "The paper proposes a unified methodology for offline to online reinforcement learning based on an out of distribution sample identifying mechanism that employs a variational autoencoder for density estimation and ultimately to quantify uncertainty. The authors propose the SUNG (simple unified uncertainty guided) framework to work on top of most model-free offline RL algorithms & evaluate the approach with CQL & TD3+BC as base algorithms. Since a key limitation when moving from offline to online learning is the conservatism that hinders collection of new data, the algorithm employs the concept of optimism in the face of uncertainty so that the policy should in the online phase choose actions that have both high value and high uncertainty. Since the distribution shift induced by this exploration scheme makes value estimation harder and can hinder learning, an adaptive uncertainty guided exploitation scheme is introduced, which regularizes the policy based on the samples' OOD-ness.\nThe empirical evaluation compares SUNG with two base algorithms against multiple other baselines on D4RL tasks and finds SUNG to outperform prior works substantially.", "soundness": "3 good", "presentation": "3 good", "contribution": "2 fair", "strengths": "Offline to Online learning is still a relatively new discipline and the authors appear to have found a simple yet effective method to outperform prior works. Selecting actions optimistically in the face of uncertainty seems like a good exploration strategy for O2O, since it's been proven to work in prior works on other exploration tasks. Especially the fact that the method is compatible with many offline RL algorithms that can be used under the hood as base algorithm appears to be a practical advantage.", "weaknesses": "I find the formulation of the SUNG framework a bit counterintuitive: The authors mention that they want to have high-uncertainty actions, yet at the same time they only sample \"near-on-policy actions for exploration\", which appears contradicting. Further, during the optimization / policy improvement part (green arrows in fig 1), the same percentage p of the batch is always labeled as OOD, which is not consistent, since the absolute uncertainty value at which a sample could be labeled OOD can vary (it could even be the case that the same sample is sometimes OOD and sometimes not, depending on the other samples in the batch).\n\nGenerally, I have a bit of an issue with the additional OOD detection in the adaptive exploitation - the regularizer in offline RL algorithms is mostly already doing OOD detection (often also based on some measure of uncertainty), so it should already automatically detect low and high uncertainty samples and thus assign low or high regularization accordingly. While this is normally not done in such a binary nature, I don't see how the adaptive exploitation scheme is not doing pretty much the same thing again. It seems to just amplify the regularization tendency that is already there. The emperical ablation in fig 2d shows it to be important, but to me it is unclear why that is the case - is the normal regularization simply not yet enough? or is the VAE based OOD detection in some qualitative way better than the base algorithms own regularization?\n\nIn the exploration scheme, where actions are ranked & selected based on value and then sampled based on uncertainty (or the other way around), you mention the possibility to adapt the trade-off preference between value and uncertainty - what do you mean by that? Would you adaptively change the trade-off during the training process or is it something you set in advance (and based on what information)? I'm also not sure whether you mention which way around you ended up doing filtering + sampling (first value or first uncertainty or maybe some combination) and why.\n\nIn the empirical evaluation I'm assuming you report final performances (i.e. after the 100k environment steps). Prior works that you mention (like Cal-QL, AWAC) have shown that during O2O, algorithms commonly suffer from immediate performance drops right after online learning starts due to distribution drift - it would be extremely interesting to see how SUNG performs in this context, which is why another performance metric reporting during the beginning of online learning could be useful or directly plotting the test returns over training time.\n\nI believe some other prior works that are currently not contained should also be considered in the related work section:\n\n[1] Swazinna, P., Udluft, S., & Runkler, T. (2021). Overcoming model bias for robust offline deep reinforcement learning. Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence (EAAI), 104.\n\n[2] Ghosh, D., Ajay, A., Agrawal, P., & Levine, S. (2022). Offline rl policies should be trained to be adaptive. ICML 2022\n\n[3] Hong, J., Kumar, A., & Levine, S. (2022). Confidence-Conditioned Value Functions for Offline Reinforcement Learning. ICLR 2023\n\n[4] Swazinna, P., Udluft, S., & Runkler, T. (2022). User-Interactive Offline Reinforcement Learning. ICLR 2023\n\n[1] introduces MOOSE, which is a model-based offline RL method that uses a VAE as a regularizer. While your adaptive exploitation scheme is using it in a different way, I still believe it should be mentioned. The works [2-4] are also concerned with offline to online learning, just that their online phase is a little shorter and their adaptations thus look a little different than the one you consider. Still, when thinking about O2O they are closely related and should be considered.\n\nMore a sidenote: Fig. 2b is labeled \"Optimistic Exploration without Uncertainty\". As far as I understand, this method is greedily selecting best actions based on value - it is unclear to me how that is optimistic (i.e. optimisim in the face of what) so maybe the different ablations should be named more clearly.\n\nI realize the weakness section is a bit lengthy, but I think your paper has merits and I am prepared to increase the score if you are able to address my concerns.", "questions": "See weakness section", "flag_for_ethics_review": ["No ethics review needed."], "rating": "5: marginally below the acceptance threshold", "confidence": "4: You are confident in your assessment, but not absolutely certain. It is unlikely, but not impossible, that you did not understand some parts of the submission or that you are unfamiliar with some pieces of related work.", "code_of_conduct": "Yes", "weakness": "I find the formulation of the SUNG framework a bit counterintuitive: The authors mention that they want to have high-uncertainty actions, yet at the same time they only sample \"near-on-policy actions for exploration\", which appears contradicting. Further, during the optimization / policy improvement part (green arrows in fig 1), the same percentage p of the batch is always labeled as OOD, which is not consistent, since the absolute uncertainty value at which a sample could be labeled OOD can vary (it could even be the case that the same sample is sometimes OOD and sometimes not, depending on the other samples in the batch).\n\nGenerally, I have a bit of an issue with the additional OOD detection in the adaptive exploitation - the regularizer in offline RL algorithms is mostly already doing OOD detection (often also based on some measure of uncertainty), so it should already automatically detect low and high uncertainty samples and thus assign low or high regularization accordingly. While this is normally not done in such a binary nature, I don't see how the adaptive exploitation scheme is not doing pretty much the same thing again. It seems to just amplify the regularization tendency that is already there. The emperical ablation in fig 2d shows it to be important, but to me it is unclear why that is the case - is the normal regularization simply not yet enough? or is the VAE based OOD detection in some qualitative way better than the base algorithms own regularization?\n\nIn the exploration scheme, where actions are ranked & selected based on value and then sampled based on uncertainty (or the other way around), you mention the possibility to adapt the trade-off preference between value and uncertainty - what do you mean by that? Would you adaptively change the trade-off during the training process or is it something you set in advance (and based on what information)? I'm also not sure whether you mention which way around you ended up doing filtering + sampling (first value or first uncertainty or maybe some combination) and why.\n\nIn the empirical evaluation I'm assuming you report final performances (i.e. after the 100k environment steps). Prior works that you mention (like Cal-QL, AWAC) have shown that during O2O, algorithms commonly suffer from immediate performance drops right after online learning starts due to distribution drift - it would be extremely interesting to see how SUNG performs in this context, which is why another performance metric reporting during the beginning of online learning could be useful or directly plotting the test returns over training time.\n\nI believe some other prior works that are currently not contained should also be considered in the related work section:\n\n[1] Swazinna, P., Udluft, S., & Runkler, T. (2021). Overcoming model bias for robust offline deep reinforcement learning. Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence (EAAI), 104.\n\n[2] Ghosh, D., Ajay, A., Agrawal, P., & Levine, S. (2022). Offline rl policies should be trained to be adaptive. ICML 2022\n\n[3] Hong, J., Kumar, A., & Levine, S. (2022). Confidence-Conditioned Value Functions for Offline Reinforcement Learning. ICLR 2023\n\n[4] Swazinna, P., Udluft, S., & Runkler, T. (2022). User-Interactive Offline Reinforcement Learning. ICLR 2023\n\n[1] introduces MOOSE, which is a model-based offline RL method that uses a VAE as a regularizer. While your adaptive exploitation scheme is using it in a different way, I still believe it should be mentioned. The works [2-4] are also concerned with offline to online learning, just that their online phase is a little shorter and their adaptations thus look a little different than the one you consider. Still, when thinking about O2O they are closely related and should be considered.\n\nMore a sidenote: Fig. 2b is labeled \"Optimistic Exploration without Uncertainty\". As far as I understand, this method is greedily selecting best actions based on value - it is unclear to me how that is optimistic (i.e. optimisim in the face of what) so maybe the different ablations should be named more clearly.\n\nI realize the weakness section is a bit lengthy, but I think your paper has merits and I am prepared to increase the score if you are able to address my concerns.", "suggestions": "The paper's core idea of using a VAE for uncertainty quantification in offline-to-online RL is promising, but several aspects require further clarification and refinement. The exploration strategy, which aims for high-uncertainty actions while restricting them to near-on-policy samples, needs a more thorough explanation. The authors should clarify the rationale behind this seemingly contradictory approach. Specifically, they should detail how the 'near-on-policy' constraint is implemented and how it balances the need for exploration with the risk of deviating too far from the learned policy. It would be beneficial to see a more detailed analysis of how the exploration strategy affects the stability and sample efficiency of the fine-tuning process. Furthermore, the adaptive exploitation mechanism, which uses a percentage-based OOD filtering, needs a more robust justification. The authors should provide a more in-depth analysis of why a fixed percentage is used and how this approach compares to more adaptive methods for OOD detection. A more detailed discussion of the potential limitations and biases introduced by this approach would also be beneficial. It is crucial to understand if the VAE-based OOD detection offers any qualitative advantages over the implicit OOD detection mechanisms already present in the base offline RL algorithms.\n\nThe trade-off between value and uncertainty in the exploration scheme requires further elaboration. The authors mention the possibility of adapting the trade-off preference, but it's unclear how this adaptation is done in practice. Is it a hyperparameter set in advance, or is it adjusted during training? If the latter, what information is used to guide this adjustment? A concrete example of how this trade-off is implemented and how it affects the policy would be very helpful. Moreover, the authors should clarify the order in which value and uncertainty are used for filtering and sampling actions. Is it value first, then uncertainty, or vice versa? The rationale behind this choice should be clearly explained, and the potential impact of different ordering strategies should be discussed. The paper would also benefit from a more detailed analysis of the performance during the initial stages of online learning. As mentioned, prior works have shown that O2O algorithms often suffer from performance drops due to distribution shift. It would be insightful to see how SUNG performs in this context, perhaps by including a plot of test returns over training time or reporting performance metrics at different stages of online learning. This would provide a more comprehensive understanding of the algorithm's behavior and its robustness to distribution drift.\n\nFinally, the related work section needs to be expanded to include relevant prior works [1,2,3,4] that address similar challenges in offline and offline-to-online RL. Specifically, the MOOSE algorithm [1], which also uses a VAE for regularization, should be discussed in more detail, highlighting the differences and similarities with the proposed approach. The works [2,3,4] that focus on adaptive offline RL policies and confidence-conditioned value functions should also be included to provide a more complete picture of the current state of the field. These works offer alternative perspectives on how to address the challenges of offline-to-online learning, and their inclusion would strengthen the paper's contribution by contextualizing it within the broader research landscape. Additionally, the label of \"Optimistic Exploration without Uncertainty\" in Fig. 2b should be clarified. The authors should explain what type of optimism is being referred to and why this method is considered optimistic in the context of the ablation study."}}, {"id": "F5oQ682l8m", "rating": 5, "content": {"summary": "This paper proposes a generic framework SUNG for sample-efficient offline-to-online RL, which introduces an optimistic exploration strategy via bi-level action selection to select informative actions for efficient exploration and develops an adaptive exploitation method with OOD sample identification to smoothly bridge offline RL and online RL objectives.", "soundness": "3 good", "presentation": "4 excellent", "contribution": "2 fair", "strengths": "1. This paper is well-written and easy to follow. \n\n2. The problem studied in this paper is important and has attracted increasing attention.\n\n3. The experiment is thorough, and the authors compared SUNG against a large pool of recent methods.", "weaknesses": "This paper incrementally adds many existing techniques, making evaluating its contribution difficult. For example, the utilization of VAE for uncertainty quantification cannot distinguish SUNG from MANY offline-to-online or offline RL methods [1,2]. The bi-level action selection is a relatively heuristic strategy; the authors did not provide any theoretical analysis/insight into why it is effective, especially for the claim \"we establish the ranking criteria for the finalist action set as uncertainty for value regularization-based methods and as Q value for other offline RL methods\". Why does SUNG use Q value for other offline RL methods?\n\nMoreover, SUNG introduces many new hyperparameters to be tuned. However, hyperparameter tuning has proven to be a challenging task in offline or offline-to-online RL.\n\nOverall, SUNG is not an elegant and \"simple\" method.\n\n[1] Zhou, W., Bajracharya, S., & Held, D. (2021, October). Plas: Latent action space for offline reinforcement learning. In Conference on Robot Learning (pp. 1719-1735). PMLR.\n\n[2] Rezaeifar, Shideh, et al. \"Offline reinforcement learning as anti-exploration.\" Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence. Vol. 36. No. 7. 2022.", "questions": "The claim in section 4.3 \" Note that offline RL methods do not suffer from state distribution shift during training, since policy evaluation only queries Q functions with states present in the offline dataset.\" seems to be incorrect in some model-based offline RL methods, e.g., MOPO, in which policy evaluation will query Q function with states generated by the model.\n\n---post-rebuttal comment---\nThanks so much for providing the detailed responses. Unfortunately, I am not satisfied with them, especially those to Q2-4. I will reconsider the score if the authors can respond to my questions directly.", "flag_for_ethics_review": ["No ethics review needed."], "rating": "5: marginally below the acceptance threshold", "confidence": "4: You are confident in your assessment, but not absolutely certain. It is unlikely, but not impossible, that you did not understand some parts of the submission or that you are unfamiliar with some pieces of related work.", "code_of_conduct": "Yes", "weakness": "This paper incrementally adds many existing techniques, making evaluating its contribution difficult. For example, the utilization of VAE for uncertainty quantification cannot distinguish SUNG from MANY offline-to-online or offline RL methods [1,2]. The bi-level action selection is a relatively heuristic strategy; the authors did not provide any theoretical analysis/insight into why it is effective, especially for the claim \"we establish the ranking criteria for the finalist action set as uncertainty for value regularization-based methods and as Q value for other offline RL methods\". Why does SUNG use Q value for other offline RL methods?\n\nMoreover, SUNG introduces many new hyperparameters to be tuned. However, hyperparameter tuning has proven to be a challenging task in offline or offline-to-online RL.\n\nOverall, SUNG is not an elegant and \"simple\" method.", "suggestions": "The paper would benefit from a more rigorous justification of its design choices, particularly regarding the bi-level action selection mechanism. While the empirical results are promising, the lack of theoretical grounding for this core component makes it difficult to assess its true contribution. Specifically, the paper should provide a more in-depth analysis of why ranking actions by uncertainty for value-regularization methods and by Q-value for other methods is the correct approach. It is not immediately clear why this distinction is necessary or what the underlying principles are. Furthermore, a more detailed explanation of the sensitivity of the method to the hyperparameter 'k' is needed. The authors should explore the impact of different values of 'k' on the exploration-exploitation trade-off, and provide guidance on how to choose an appropriate value for different tasks. A theoretical analysis, even if simplified, could provide valuable insights into the behavior of this selection process and its convergence properties.\n\nFurthermore, the paper should address the concern about the increased hyperparameter tuning burden. While the authors claim that SUNG does not require extensive tuning, the introduction of parameters such as 'k' and 'p' adds to the complexity of the method. A more thorough analysis of the sensitivity of the method to these parameters is needed, including a discussion of how to choose appropriate values for different tasks. The authors should also consider providing a default or recommended range for these parameters, based on their experimental findings. It would also be beneficial to compare the tuning effort required for SUNG with that of other offline-to-online RL methods. This would help to clarify whether the additional hyperparameters are a significant drawback or not. The paper should also explore the possibility of adaptive or automated hyperparameter tuning strategies to mitigate this issue.\n\nFinally, the paper should provide a more comprehensive comparison with existing methods, particularly those that also utilize uncertainty estimation for exploration. While the authors compare SUNG against a large pool of methods, a more detailed analysis of the differences and similarities between SUNG and other uncertainty-based exploration techniques would be valuable. For example, how does SUNG's uncertainty estimation compare to other methods that use VAEs or other techniques? What are the advantages and disadvantages of SUNG's approach compared to these alternatives? A more in-depth discussion of these issues would help to clarify the novelty and contribution of SUNG. The authors should also consider including ablation studies to isolate the impact of each component of SUNG, which would further strengthen the paper's claims."}}, {"id": "RTRj9RVRoN", "rating": 3, "content": {"summary": "The paper presents the Simple Unified Uncertainty-Guided (SUNG) framework as a solution to the challenges encountered in offline-to-online reinforcement learning (RL). To address issues related to exploratory behavior and state-action distribution shifts, the framework leverages a VAE-based state-action visitation density estimator to quantify uncertainty. It also employs an optimistic exploration strategy to select actions with both high value and uncertainty, facilitating efficient exploration. Furthermore, SUNG incorporates an adaptive exploitation method that applies conservative offline RL objectives to high-uncertainty samples and standard online RL objectives to low-uncertainty samples, enabling a smooth transition from offline to online stages.", "soundness": "2 fair", "presentation": "3 good", "contribution": "2 fair", "strengths": "Research into the domain of online finetuning holds significant importance within the field of offline learning.\n\nThe experimental evaluation suggests that there is potential for improvement in the finetuning performance when the proposed approach is combined with various offline RL methods across a range of environments and datasets from the D4RL benchmark. These findings indicate the adaptability and practicality of the suggested technique in different settings.\n\nThe paper demonstrates a high degree of clarity and well-structured writing, rendering it easily understandable for readers.", "weaknesses": "The primary concern raised with regard to this paper pertains to its novelty. The concept of leveraging uncertainty in the context of offline learning is a well-established one. From the perspective of reviewers, the key innovation in this article lies in the utilization of a VAE for quantifying uncertainty, which does not represent a notable departure from conventional methods.\n\nWhile this paper introduces a straightforward empirical method, it is notable for its absence of a comprehensive theoretical analysis to substantiate the advantages of the proposed approach relative to existing methods. Offering a theoretical foundation and analysis would be valuable in bolstering the method's credibility and potential impact, providing a more solid basis for its effectiveness.", "questions": "Plese see comments on weakness.", "flag_for_ethics_review": ["No ethics review needed."], "details_of_ethics_concerns": "N/A", "rating": "3: reject, not good enough", "confidence": "4: You are confident in your assessment, but not absolutely certain. It is unlikely, but not impossible, that you did not understand some parts of the submission or that you are unfamiliar with some pieces of related work.", "code_of_conduct": "Yes", "weakness": "The primary concern raised with regard to this paper pertains to its novelty. The concept of leveraging uncertainty in the context of offline learning is a well-established one. From the perspective of reviewers, the key innovation in this article lies in the utilization of a VAE for quantifying uncertainty, which does not represent a notable departure from conventional methods.\n\nWhile this paper introduces a straightforward empirical method, it is notable for its absence of a comprehensive theoretical analysis to substantiate the advantages of the proposed approach relative to existing methods. Offering a theoretical foundation and analysis would be valuable in bolstering the method's credibility and potential impact, providing a more solid basis for its effectiveness.", "suggestions": "The paper's core weakness lies in its incremental contribution over existing methods. While the use of a VAE for uncertainty estimation is presented as a key innovation, it is not a fundamentally novel concept within the broader context of uncertainty-guided reinforcement learning. To strengthen the paper, the authors should explore more sophisticated uncertainty quantification methods beyond a standard VAE. For example, they could investigate Bayesian neural networks or other density estimation techniques that offer more robust uncertainty estimates, particularly in high-dimensional state-action spaces. Furthermore, the paper should provide a more detailed analysis of how the chosen VAE architecture affects the quality of uncertainty estimates and, consequently, the overall performance of the algorithm. This analysis should include a comparison of different VAE architectures and their impact on exploration and exploitation strategies. It is crucial to demonstrate that the VAE-based approach provides a tangible advantage over simpler, more established methods for uncertainty estimation.\n\nTo address the lack of theoretical analysis, the authors should consider providing at least a preliminary theoretical justification for their approach. While a full theoretical treatment may be challenging, the paper would benefit from a formal analysis of the algorithm's convergence properties or a theoretical bound on its performance. This could involve analyzing how the uncertainty estimates affect the policy update and how the adaptive exploitation strategy impacts the stability of learning. Moreover, the authors should explore the potential limitations of their approach in different scenarios and highlight the conditions under which their method is expected to perform well. This would provide a clearer understanding of the algorithm's strengths and weaknesses and help guide future research in this area. For instance, the authors could investigate how the method behaves under varying levels of offline data quality or in environments with different reward structures.\n\nFinally, the experimental evaluation could be enhanced by including a more detailed analysis of the algorithm's sensitivity to hyperparameter settings. While the paper mentions the robustness of the method, it would be valuable to provide a more systematic study of how different hyperparameters affect its performance. This analysis should include a discussion of the optimal hyperparameter ranges and guidance on how to select appropriate values for different tasks. Furthermore, a comparison of the computational cost of the proposed method with existing approaches would provide a more complete picture of its practical applicability. The authors should also consider including a visualization of the learned uncertainty estimates to provide a better understanding of how the algorithm explores the state-action space."}}, {"id": "XVnit2hOGg", "rating": 3, "content": {"summary": "This work investigates fine-tuning pretrained offline RL policies via further online interactions, aiming to address two challenges: constrained exploratory behavior and state-action distribution shift. Building on uncertainty quantification, this work introduces a \nfine-tuning framework that alternates between optimistic exploration and adaptive exploitation.", "soundness": "2 fair", "presentation": "2 fair", "contribution": "2 fair", "strengths": "+ Overall, the paper is well written and easy to read. The challenges and motivation are clearly phrased.\n\n+ The studied problem, offline-to-online RL, is an important problem,  especially when fine-tuning large-scale policy models.\n\n+ The proposed methods introduce some new ideas (e.g., uncertainty-weighted online exploitation) capable of benefiting the development of this field.", "weaknesses": "One main weakness of this work mainly lies in (i) the explainability and usability of the proposed methods, and (ii) the gap between the motivation and evaluation (please see the details below).\n\n- This work utilizes VAE to characterize the uncertainty of state-actions, whereas the paper does not provide the specific definition of uncertainty, and it’s not convincing why VAE is superior to other methods, e.g., Q-ensemble learning. \n\n- The reviewer is concerned with the highlighted OOD (distributional shift) issue. In Section 4.3, the paper claims that the OOD state-actions can harm the performance of online fine-tuning. Wouldn’t the collected online data, that contain reward signals, enhance the data support of the offline dataset? \n\n- There is a lack of clear explanation towards the unique challenges in the exploration-exploitation of the offline-to-online problem. For instance, a major issue could be the “forgetting” - during the model updates  the fine-tuned policy can quickly forget what it has learned from offline, which is neglected by this work.\n\n- The motivation and evaluation are isolated. In the Introduction, the paper claims “the proposed method provides a generic solution for offline-to-online RL to enable finetuning agents pretrained with different offline RL objectives.” However, in the experiment, the tuning policy is pretrained from the same task.", "questions": "There are a set of hyper-parameters introduced in the proposed method without reasonable guidelines on how to determine these parameters, e.g., N, alpha, lambda, etc. It would hinder the usability of the algorithm, and it would help if the authors can provided theoretical guidance on how to select the hyper-parameters to optimally balance the exploration-exploitation tradeoff.\n\n- As shown in Eq. (9), is the fine-tuning method dependent on the pretraining algorithm?", "flag_for_ethics_review": ["No ethics review needed."], "rating": "3: reject, not good enough", "confidence": "5: You are absolutely certain about your assessment. You are very familiar with the related work and checked the math/other details carefully.", "code_of_conduct": "Yes", "weakness": "One main weakness of this work mainly lies in (i) the explainability and usability of the proposed methods, and (ii) the gap between the motivation and evaluation (please see the details below).\n\n- This work utilizes VAE to characterize the uncertainty of state-actions, whereas the paper does not provide the specific definition of uncertainty, and it’s not convincing why VAE is superior to other methods, e.g., Q-ensemble learning. \n\n- The reviewer is concerned with the highlighted OOD (distributional shift) issue. In Section 4.3, the paper claims that the OOD state-actions can harm the performance of online fine-tuning. Wouldn’t the collected online data, that contain reward signals, enhance the data support of the offline dataset? \n\n- There is a lack of clear explanation towards the unique challenges in the exploration-exploitation of the offline-to-online problem. For instance, a major issue could be the “forgetting” - during the model updates  the fine-tuned policy can quickly forget what it has learned from offline, which is neglected by this work.\n\n- The motivation and evaluation are isolated. In the Introduction, the paper claims “the proposed method provides a generic solution for offline-to-online RL to enable finetuning agents pretrained with different offline RL objectives.” However, in the experiment, the tuning policy is pretrained from the same task.", "suggestions": "The paper should provide a more rigorous definition of uncertainty, especially in the context of using a VAE. While the paper mentions using the negative log-likelihood as an approximation, it lacks a deeper discussion on why this specific metric is suitable for capturing the type of uncertainty relevant to offline-to-online RL. It would be beneficial to discuss the limitations of using a VAE for uncertainty estimation, particularly in high-dimensional state-action spaces, and how this choice may impact the exploration-exploitation trade-off. Furthermore, a comparison with other uncertainty quantification methods, such as Q-ensemble learning, should be more thorough, including a discussion of the trade-offs between computational cost and accuracy. The authors should clarify whether the VAE is trained on the offline dataset, the online data, or both, and how this choice affects the uncertainty estimates.\n\nRegarding the OOD issue, the paper needs to provide a more detailed explanation of how the proposed adaptive exploitation method achieves high sample efficiency compared to standard online data collection. While the authors mention that OOD samples can harm performance, it is not clear how their method specifically mitigates this issue beyond simply identifying OOD samples. A more concrete explanation of how the adaptive exploitation strategy leverages the uncertainty estimates to improve sample efficiency is needed. For instance, how does the method decide when to switch between exploration and exploitation, and how does this decision relate to the uncertainty estimates? A more detailed analysis of the impact of different exploration strategies on the distribution shift would also be beneficial. The paper should also address the potential for the online data to enhance the offline dataset, and how their method accounts for this.\n\nFinally, the paper should provide a more detailed explanation of the unique challenges in the exploration-exploitation trade-off for offline-to-online RL. The paper should clarify how the proposed method addresses the 'forgetting' issue, which is a critical concern when fine-tuning policies learned from offline data. Specifically, how does the method prevent the policy from losing the knowledge acquired during the offline pretraining phase? Furthermore, the paper needs to provide a more convincing argument for the 'genericness' of the proposed method. The current experiments only demonstrate its effectiveness when fine-tuning policies pretrained on the same task. To validate the claim of being a generic solution, the authors should include experiments where the tuning policy is pretrained using a different offline RL objective or even a different dataset. The authors should also provide more concrete guidelines on how to choose the hyper-parameters, such as N, alpha, and lambda, and discuss the sensitivity of the method to these parameters."}}]